Marc D'Amico and Taylor Snow "post" the latest from pre-game media sessions on the road in Celtics.com's Post-Ups notebook. Bookmark this page and come back for updates from the road.Note: Opinions expressed are those of the author exclusively and do not necessarily represent those of the Boston Celtics.
DENVER – The Celtics aren’t the only ones noticing that their offense has been anemic inside the paint. Opponents are honing in on that fact, too.Prior to tonight’s matchup with the Nuggets, Denver head coach Mike Malone pointed out to the media – unprompted – that Boston ranks last in the league in points in the paint with an average of just 35.3 per game. That number is far and away the worst in the league, with the next-lowest average coming in at 42.3 per game (Houston and Memphis).Brad Stevens touched on that fact prior to Monday morning’s shootaround at the Pepsi Center. He noted that his team’s paltry interior scoring isn’t a new issue.“Last year we were not very good either,” he said. He added, “That’s been an issue for us for the last 18 months. Prior to that we were pretty good at it. So we’ve just got to keep hammering on it, see if we can get a little better.”Stevens dove deeper into those issues prior to tip-off. He explained that the Celtics don’t necessarily need to change their offense; they just need to improve upon certain nuances of the offense that lead to interior scoring opportunities.“I do think that we need to be better at cutting,” he said. “Just a little bit more alert to being quicker with our drive decisions on quick swings, making a point of getting the ball quickly to the ground and to the rim and then read from there.”Asked later if the C’s don’t have the guys on the roster to accomplish that goal, Stevens answered briskly, “I think we have enough.”Certainly, Boston has plenty of players who can put pressure on the defense off the bounce. Kyrie Irving is one of the best in the league in that area, and he averaged 11.6 driver per game last season. Meanwhile, Jayson Tatum and Jaylen Brown averaged 10.1 and 6.1 drives per game, respectively, last postseason. This season, Irving’s average has dropped to 7.7 per game, and Tatum and Brown have each dropped to 5.8 per game.The Celtics need those players, as well as others, to improve in that area in order to begin to generate interior scoring. They must also be alert to the defense to find cutting opportunities when they are off the ball. To their credit, Stevens did comment that he has seen improvements in such plays of late.“We’ve been good the last few games once we’ve gotten there about spraying it and then making the next right pass,” he said. “We’re just not getting there quite enough. Hopefully we will tonight.”Boston certainly has the ability to get into the paint; it has just yet to unlock that ability this season. A pleasant stat of which the C’s should take note is that they scored an average of 44.0 points per game in the paint last season against the Nuggets. Both of these rosters are largely the same as the ones that squared off last season, so it’s obvious that Boston has the ability to accomplish its goal tonight.However, this time around, Denver is clearly honing in on the fact that the C’s have struggled to generate points in the lane. That fact will make doing so even a heftier challenge as these two contenders meet for the first time this season.- Marc D'Amico
PHOENIX – The Boston Celtics have seen Deandre Ayton on tape. Now it’s time to see him on the court.Boston will face off with Ayton, the No. 1 overall pick in the 2018 Draft, for the first time tonight in Phoenix. The 7-foot-1 center has opened his career by averaging 15.9 points and 10.9 rebounds per game through his first 10 games.The level at which Ayton has played has garnered strong reviews, and that trend continued with Brad Stevens prior to tip-off. Boston’s coach was asked about what he has seen from Ayton on film, and all he did in response was rave about the rookie.“He’s a special talent,” said Stevens. “Skilled, knows how to play, is huge in there, so he’s great rolling and ducking in. Plays above the rim but can also pass. Again, skilled from the perimeter. He’s a heck of a player, as you would assume that the first pick would be.”A heck of a player, but also a unique player who presents a unique challenge to the C’s. Ayton is different than the two centers Boston has faced thus far on its five-game road trip, Myles Turner and Nikola Jokic.“I think going from guys like Myles Turner, who is a really skilled offensive player that’s pushed his range out to the 3-point line but blocks shots, to Jokic, who is one of the best passers in the game and makes plays for himself and others, now to Ayton, who can do a little bit of both of those things, I think that every night the challenge changes a little bit,” said Stevens. “But he brings everything to the table that you would think a really good player at that position brings.”There are a number of Celtics who will learn that first-hand tonight for the very first time in the NBA. The challenge will first be presented to Al Horford, and then to the likes of Aron Baynes and potentially Robert Williams.It’s time for the C’s to see what this year’s No. 1 overall pick truly brings to the table.- Marc D'Amico
SALT LAKE CITY – There’s big news tonight regarding Gordon Hayward: he will play in his first back-to-back of the season.OK, the real story is that he’s making his return to Salt Lake City, where he left during the summer of 2017 to join the Celtics, but the back-to-back aspect adds a twist to the game.“This is kind of the litmus test,” Brad Stevens said of tonight’s game, “is the second night of a back-to-back at the same level he’s been playing. So (he) should be about the same, somewhere in that 23 to 26-minute range.”That’s good news for everyone in the building, because no one wanted Hayward to miss another potential return to the arena he used to call home.It’s well-known at this point that Hayward suffered a dramatic injury during the first game of last season. He missed 11 months before being cleared for full-contact basketball, which delayed his return to Salt Lake City. He has played all but one game this season for Boston, but this one will unquestionably be a bit different.On this night, Hayward will be exposed to the true feelings of Salt Lake City’s fans, who were angered by the forward’s decision to leave and sign with the Celtics. Hayward will also see plenty of familiar faces throughout the night, ranging from Utah’s head coach, Quin Snyder, to security guards in the hallways.“I think obviously he spent seven great years here and it meant a lot to him and his family,” Stevens said. “Without question, there’s going to be extra emotions that go into that for him. The best that we can, you focus on what you can control and go from there. I think it would be not human to not recognize that there will be extra emotions attached to this.”Stevens said he expects Hayward to “handle it fine” as he works his way through the night’s emotions. The other lingering question revolved around what Hayward will bring to the table for Boston while he is on the court.Hayward enters tonight’s game averaging only 9.9 points per game on 40.0 percent shooting. He averaged at least 16.2 PPG for four straight seasons before joining Boston, so he clearly has not returned to his All-Star form. Stevens said it’s on him and the coaching staff to get Hayward in better positions to look like his old self.“I think one of the things that we’ve got to do a better job of as a group is put all of our guys in position to be more successful within their strengths,” the coach said. “He brings a lot of strengths to the table off of general actions and off of pick-and-rolls, where he can be a playmaker for others, as well as himself. I think early on we’ve done a decent job, but I think we can do a lot better as a staff.”Stevens made sure to note that no one within Boston’s organization assumed that Hayward would pick up right where he left off before his injury.“We didn’t expect this to be an overnight thing,” Stevens said.On the contrary, what Stevens, Hayward and the Celtics do expect is for tonight’s game to be an emotional rollercoaster as the forward makes the return to the building he called home for the first seven years of his career.- Marc D'Amico
BOSTON – Most NBA players returning from injury will be placed on a minutes restriction for a handful of games as they work their way back into game shape. In Al Horford’s case, who returned from a knee injury in late December, the Boston Celtics have opted to be a bit more cautious in their approach.Horford missed seven consecutive games from Dec. 8 to Dec. 21 after being diagnosed with Patellofemoral pain syndrome in his left knee. He returned to action against the Milwaukee Bucks on Dec. 23 and has not missed a game since. During that time Horford’s minutes have been monitored. The team has tried to cap his minutes to a max of 25, and the only time he has gone over was when he played 30 during Boston’s Christmas Day game against Philadelphia that went into overtime.Ahead of Wednesday night’s matchup against the Indiana Pacers, Brad Stevens announced that Horford’s restriction has gone up slightly to about 27 or 28 minutes."Obviously (it’s OK) if he goes 29 or 26, whatever the case may be, but we just don’t want to backlog 36-minute games back-to-back-to-back-to-back, one after another with him coming off of the knee (injury),” Stevens said ahead of tip-off at TD Garden. “He’s already played now eight straight after that, so he feels good and he looks good.”Boston employed a similar restriction on Marcus Morris last season. The veteran forward missed the first eight games of the 2017-18 campaign with a sore knee, and came back to a minutes restriction that lasted him from early November all the way through mid-January.“By March, Morris felt great and really played well toward the end of the season,” Stevens pointed out. “So it’s a fairly similar plan.”Horford’s body seems to be responding well to the limitation, as his per-36 numbers have been exceptional upon his return. Over the past eight games, he has averaged 17.2 points, 9.4 rebounds and 7.0 assists per 36 minutes all while shooting 56.3 percent from the field and 47.6 percent from 3-point range.- Taylor Snow
MIAMI – Nearly 27 months after parting ways, the Boston Celtics and R.J. Hunter have paired up yet again.Hunter, a former 2015 first-round pick of the Celtics who was later waived in October of 2016, signed a two-way contract with Boston Thursday afternoon. Hunter and his former coach, Brad Stevens, are both ecstatic about the reunion.“It’s been a journey since I last was in a Celtic jersey, and for them to give me another chance means everything to me,” Hunter wrote Wednesday in an Instagram post. Stevens, while speaking ahead of Boston’s Thursday night matchup with the Heat, said, “It’s a neat story … The stories that I’m most fond of are the stories where guys have to take a step back and really work their way to get back into it. Kudos to him for doing that.”Hunter rejoins the Celtics and the team’s G-League affiliate, the Maine Red Claws, after spending the last two seasons in the G-League with the Rio Grande Valley Vipers and the Erie BayHawks, respectively. His play there, where he shot a combined 36.6 percent from long range over two seasons, is what caught the attention of the Celtics.“On the offensive end, if he’s making shots, he’s a really hard guy to guard,” Stevens said, “because he’s, I think – his best attribute offensively is passing off actions. And so the shot-making really opens that up, and he’s been making them for the last two years.”Hunter was also averaging a career-best 4.7 assists per 36 minutes during 22 games with the BayHawks this season.While the majority of Stevens’ comments were about Hunter’s growth as a player over the last couple of years, the coach did look back upon that fateful day in 2016 when these two parties went their separate ways. The decision to cut Hunter was not an easy one, to say the least.“I think one of the toughest things that I’ve been a part of over the last six years is when we had those 16 guaranteed contracts in the fall and we had to make a decision on one and we ultimately had to waive R.J.,” Stevens recalled. “Because we thought he was a high-upside player that had really gotten better, that was going to work hard to be better.”Hunter has done exactly that over the last two-plus years, which led him to a reunion with the team that drafted him in June of 2015. - Marc D'Amico
July 12, 2013The Boston Celtics announced today that they have traded forward Paul Pierce, forward/center Kevin Garnett, guard Jason Terry and forward D.J. White to the Brooklyn Nets in exchange for forwards Gerald Wallace and Kris Humphries, guard/forward Keith Bogans, guard MarShon Brooks, forward Kris Joseph, three future first round draft picks and the option to swap first round picks during the 2017 draft.“We would like to thank Paul, Kevin, and Jason for everything that they have done for this franchise. We would not have won Banner 17 without Paul and Kevin and they will go down amongst the all-time great players to have ever worn a Celtics uniform,” said Celtics President of Basketball Operations Danny Ainge. “At the same time we are excited to welcome Gerald, Kris, Keith, MarShon and Kris to the Celtics family. They bring a wealth of talent, experience, depth, and flexibility to our team.”“Paul and Kevin exemplified everything it means to be a Celtic,” said Celtics Managing Partner and CEO Wyc Grousbeck. “They were instrumental in bringing back Celtic Pride and providing our fans with the franchise’s first championship in over 20 years in 2008. We wish them nothing but the best in the future.”“We are really excited to welcome Gerald, Kris, Keith, MarShon and Kris to the Celtics organization,” said Celtics Head Coach Brad Stevens. “They collectively bring a great deal of versatility, unique skill sets and production to our roster. I cannot wait to get to work with them.”Wallace, a 6’7” forward, has posted career averages of 12.9 points, 6.2 rebounds, 2.1 assists and 1.5 steals in 742 career games over 12 seasons.  Wallace was named an All-Star during the 2009-10 season with Charlotte when he averaged a double-double with 18.2 points and 10.0 rebounds to go along with 1.5 steals and 1.1 blocks in 41.0 minutes per game. He also shot a career-high 37.1 percent from three-point territory during that season. Wallace was named to the NBA All-Defensive First Team during the 2009-10 season. During the 2012-13 season, Wallace recorded a season-high of 25 points against the Detroit Pistons on December 12. He also recorded 16 rebounds against Milwaukee on December 9.Humphries, a 6’9” forward, has played in 558 career games split between Utah, Toronto, Dallas and the New Jersey/Brooklyn franchise and holds career averages of 6.6 points and 5.5 rebounds in 17.9 minutes per game. He posted his best statistical season during the 2011-12 season when he started all 62 games in which he appeared and averaged 13.8 points, 11.0 rebounds, 1.5 assists and 1.2 blocks in 34.9 minutes per game. During the 2012-13 season, Humphries recorded a season-high of 20 points against Washington on April 15. He also recorded a season-high of 21 rebounds against Orlando on November 11.Bogans, a 6’5” guard/forward, has appeared in 665 games during his 10-year career with career averages of 6.4 points and 2.7 rebounds per game. The former Kentucky Wildcat appeared in 74 games (23 starts) for the Nets last season and averaged 4.2 points and 1.6 rebounds in 19.0 minutes per game. Bogans recorded a season-high of 13 points against Philadelphia on December 23. A career 35.3 percent shooter from three-point territory, Bogans posted his best three-point mark during the 2006-07 season with Orlando when he shot 38.7 percent from the field.Brooks, a 6’5” guard, appeared in 73 games for the Nets during his sophomore campaign last season. He was named to the NBA All-Rookie Second Team during the 2011-12 season when he averaged 12.6 points, 3.6 rebounds and 2.3 assists in 29.4 minutes per game. The Providence College alum notched a new career-high in points during the 2012-13 season when he recorded 27 points and a career-high-tying seven assists at Cleveland on April 3.Joseph, a 6’7” forward, was originally drafted by the Celtics with the 51st overall pick in the 2012 NBA Draft. He appeared in 10 games split between Boston and Brooklyn and totaled 11 points and nine rebounds over 54 minutes. Joseph also appeared in 27 games split between the Springfield Armor and the Maine Red Claws of the NBA Development League averaging 18.6 points, 4.6 rebounds, 1.8 assists and 1.7 steals in 34.0 minutes per game and was named to the All-NBDL Second Team.Pierce, a 6’7” forward, leaves the Celtics ranked second in team history in points (24,021), third in games played (1,102) and minutes (40,360), fourth in assists (4,305) and second in points per game (21.8). He also is ranked first in team history in steals (1,583), three point field goals made (1,823) and attempted (4,928), and free throws made (6,434) and attempted (7,979). Pierce was originally drafted with the 10th overall pick in the 1998 NBA Draft and made 10 All-Star games, was named to four All-NBA Teams, and holds the franchise record for most NBA Player of the Week awards with 17. He was recognized as the MVP of the 2008 NBA Finals when he led the Celtics to their 17th NBA Championship. During the 2012-13 season, Pierce recorded three triple-doubles (most of his career), while averaging a team-high 18.6 points to go along with 6.3 rebounds and 4.8 assists while shooting 38.0 percent from three-point land.Garnett, a 6’11” forward/center, appeared in 396 games with the Celtics and averaged 15.7 points, 8.3 rebounds, 2.7 assists, 1.2 steals and 1.0 blocks in 30.9 minutes per game. He was named an All-Star during five of the six seasons that he played for the Celtics and was named the 2007-08 Defensive Player of the Year. A member of the 2008 NBA Championship team, he also was named to the NBA All-Defensive Teams four times as a Celtic and was named to the All-NBA First Team during the 2007-08 season. Garnett averaged 14.8 points, 7.8 rebounds, 2.3 assists and 1.2 steals while shooting 49.6 percent from the field this past season. Garnett reached notable career milestones with the Celtics including 15th all-time in NBA history in points (25,274), 10th all-time in rebounds (13,843), 18th in blocks (1,970), 16th in steals (1,742), 11th in games played (1,323), and sixth in minutes played (47,801).Terry, a 6’2” guard, appeared in 79 games for the Celtics during the 2012-13 season after signing as a free agent, and averaged 10.1 points, 2.0 rebounds and 2.5 assists in 26.9 minutes per game. He shot 37.2 percent from three-point territory. In his six playoff appearances for the Celtics he averaged 12.0 points, 2.2 rebounds and 2.0 assists while shooting 44.1 percent from three-point territory. Terry recorded a season-high of 26 points against Denver on February 10. He posted four games this past season with 20 or more points and recorded 15 games with 15 or more points.White, a 6’9” forward, was originally signed by the Celtics on February 28, 2013. He appeared in 12 games for the Celtics averaging 2.4 points and 1.1 rebounds in 7.2 minutes per game. He posted a season-high of eight points against Toronto on April 17. The Celtics originally signed him on February 28, 2013 after he had appeared in 32 games for the Shanghai Sharks of the Chinese Basketball Association where he had averaged 21.6 points, 9.7 rebounds and 1.3 blocks in 33.0 minutes per game.
“Darko has asked us to release him so he could deal with a personal matter,” said Celtics President of Basketball Operations Danny Ainge. “The whole Celtics family wishes Darko and his family well.”Milicic, a 7’0” center, averaged 2.6 points and 4.2 rebounds across 5 preseason and regular season games with the Celtics this year.

NEW YORK, May 22, 2014 – The Philadelphia 76ers’ Michael Carter-Williams, the 2013-14 Kia NBA Rookie of the Year, headlines the 2013-14 NBA All-Rookie First Team, the NBA announced today. Carter-Williams was the lone unanimous First Team selection (250 points, 125 First Team votes), while the Orlando Magic’s Victor Oladipo narrowly missed a perfect ballot (248 points, 124 First Team votes).  Trey Burke of the Utah Jazz (230 points, 108 First Team votes), Mason Plumlee of the Brooklyn Nets (214 points, 95 First Team votes) and the New York Knicks’ Tim Hardaway Jr. (204 points, 87 First Team votes) complete the 2013-14 NBA All-Rookie First Team.The voting panel consisted of 125 sportswriters and broadcasters throughout the United States and Canada who were asked to select five players for the first team and five players for the second team, regardless of position.  Two points were awarded for first team votes and one for second team votes.Carter-Williams, the 11th overall selection in the 2013 NBA Draft, averaged 16.7 points, 6.3 assists, 6.2 rebounds, and 1.86 spg.  He  joined Oscar Robertson and Magic Johnson as the only rookies in NBA history to average at least 16.0 points, 6.0 rebounds and 6.0 assists, and was named Kia NBA Eastern Conference Rookie of the Month honors in October/November, January, March and April.  He tallied 17 double-doubles and two triple-doubles on the season, while scoring at least 20 points in 25 contests.Oladipo averaged 13.8 ppg, 4.1 rebounds, 4.1 apg and 1.6 spg in his rookie campaign. He tallied double-figure scoring efforts in 62 games and posted one triple-double. Burke averaged 12.8 ppg, 5.7 apg and 3.0 rpg. He had 12 games with 20 or more points, and handed out 10 or more assists seven times. Plumlee averaged 7.4 ppg and 4.4 apg for the Nets. Following the All-Star break, he posted 13 games with 10 or more points and eight games with eight or more rebounds.  Hardaway Jr. averaged 10.2 ppg and shot .363 from distance. He posted double-digit scoring games 40 times even though he came off the bench in all but one of the 81 games he appeared in.The NBA All-Rookie Second Team consists of the Boston Celtics’ Kelly Olynyk (119 points, 19 First Team votes), the Milwaukee Bucks’ Giannis Antetokounmpo (116 points, 15 First Team votes), the Minnesota Timberwolves’ Gorgui Dieng (96 points, 21 First Team votes), the Charlotte Hornets’ Cody Zeller (67 points, three First Team votes), and the Oklahoma City Thunder’s Steven Adams (65 points, nine First Team votes).Attached are the results of the balloting for the 2013-14 NBA All-Rookie teams. The balloting was tabulated by the independent accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP.
BOSTON, MA – The Boston Celtics have traded forward Abdel Nader and cash considerations to the Oklahoma City Thunder in exchange for guard Rodney Purvis, the team announced today.Nader played in 48 games (one start) during his rookie season with the Celtics in 2017-18, averaging 3.0 points and 1.5 rebounds in 10.9 minutes.
BOSTON, MA – The Boston Celtics have re-signed center Aron Baynes, the team announced today. Per team policy, terms of the deal were not disclosed.Baynes, 31, started in 67 of his 81 games played during his first season with the Celtics in 2017-18, averaging 6.0 points (47.1% FG, 75.6% FT) and 5.4 rebounds in 18.3 minutes. He anchored the Celtics league-leading defense, which allowed just 97.6 points per 100 possessions with him on the court (3rd best among players who played in half of their team’s games).“Aron was a big part of our success this past year and we’re thrilled to have him back,” said Celtics President of Basketball Operations Danny Ainge. “He’s a great teammate and an anchor to our defense. The energy and passion that he brings to the table are contagious.”The Australian native capped off last season with a career-high 26-point (12-23 FG), 14-rebound performance against Brooklyn on April 11, making him the first Celtics center to produce 25+ points and 14+ rebounds in a single game since Kevin Garnett (12/3/08).Baynes played in all 19 of Boston’s postseason games in 2018 (12 starts), averaging 6.0 points (50.6% FG, 72.2% FT) and 6.2 rebounds in 20.5 minutes. He also shot a team-best 11-for-23 from beyond the arc (47.8% 3-PT) throughout the NBA Playoffs.A six-year NBA veteran, Baynes has averaged 5.4 points (50.2% FG, 80.2% FT), 4.4 rebounds and 15.0 minutes in 376 career games (91 starts) with San Antonio, Detroit and Boston.
BOSTON, MA – The Boston Celtics have signed guard Brad Wanamaker, the team announced today. Per team policy, terms of the deal were not disclosed.Wanamaker (6-4, 209 lbs.) officially joins the Celtics after spending the last seven years competing professionally in Europe. The Philadelphia, PA native played in 69 games (45 starts) with Fenerbahce Ulker of the Euroleague in 2017-18, averaging 11.5 points (45.6% FG, 35.0% 3-PT, 83.3% FT), 2.2 rebounds, 3.5 assists and 1.14 steals in 24.0 minutes.Wanamaker excelled during a 2018 postseason run that ended with Fenerbahce’s third straight BSL title. He averaged 16.2 points on 76.3% shooting (9-16 3-PT) and 4.2 assists throughout the championship-clinching series against Tofas en route to being named the Turkish League Finals Most Valuable Player. Named Second Team All-Euroleague as recently as 2016-17, Wanamaker produced 16.7 points (44.8% FG, 38.6% 3-PT, 86.4% FT) and 4.7 assists in 34 games (33 starts) during his lone season with Darussafaka Basketbol Istanbul. In joining the Celtics, Wanamaker reunites with second-year forward Daniel Theis, who previously served as his teammate with Brose Baskets Bamberg for two seasons from 2014-15 to 2015-16. Both Wanamaker and Theis were named German Beko BBL All-Star starters during the second year of their pairing in 2015-16, with Wanamaker eventually ending the season as the league’s Most Valuable Player and Offensive Player of the Year. A four-year product at the University of Pittsburgh from 2007-08 to 2010-11, Wanamaker averaged 7.9 points on 43.7% shooting in his collegiate career with the Panthers.Wanamaker will wear No. 9 with Boston.
BOSTON, MA – The Boston Celtics have signed guard PJ Dozier to a two-way contract, the team announced today. Per team policy, terms of the deal were not disclosed.Dozier, 21, is set to compete on his second two-way contract in as many NBA seasons, having previously held a two-way position with Oklahoma City in 2017-18. He made his NBA debut with the Thunder on Feb. 8, 2018 at the Lakers, one of two contests he saw action in.In 43 games played (38 starts) with the Oklahoma City Blue of the NBA G League last season, Dozier (6-7, 201 lbs.) produced 12.9 points (46.5% FG, 34.0% 3-PT), 5.6 rebounds, 2.7 assists and 1.4 steals in 28.4 minutes. The University of South Carolina product scored at least 20 points on five occasions, including a season-high 26 points (10-19 FG) on Jan. 28 against the South Bay Lakers.Dozier participated in five games on Oklahoma City’s 2018 NBA Las Vegas Summer team in July, averaging 11.0 points on 52.0% shooting and 1.40 steals in 23.0 minutes.A native of Columbia, SC, Dozier capped off his two-year collegiate career on a high note in 2017 after contributing to the Gamecocks’ first-ever NCAA Tournament Final Four appearance. He averaged 15.6 points (50.8% FG), 4.8 rebounds and 2.4 assists in five tournament games and was selected to the NCAA Tournament All-Region team. 
BOSTON, MA – The Boston Celtics have signed guard R.J. Hunter to a two-way contract, the team announced today. Per team policy, terms of the deal were not disclosed.Hunter comes to Boston having played in 22 games for the Erie Bay Hawks of the NBA G League, where he averaged 22.0 points (42.6% FG, 34.3% 3-PT, 85.6% FT), 5.6 rebounds, 4.3 assists, 2.0 steals, and 1.0 block in 33.2 minutes. Hunter has scored 40 or more points on two separate occasions, including a season-high 46 points on 19-of-31 shooting (8-15 3-PT) and 10 rebounds against Delaware on Dec. 29.Hunter has connected on 72 three-point field goals with Erie, tied for the third most in the G League in 2018-19.Originally selected by Boston with the 28th overall pick in the 2015 NBA Draft, Hunter has played in 44 career NBA games over three seasons with the Celtics, Bulls, and Rockets.
    BOSTON, MA – The Boston Celtics have signed center/forward Robert Williams, the team announced today. Per team policy, terms    of the deal were not disclosed.    Williams, 20, comes to Boston after having been selected 27th overall with the team’s lone draft pick in the 2018 NBA Draft.    He averaged 11.1 points on 59.1% shooting and 8.7 rebounds in 61 games (40 starts) over two collegiate seasons at Texas    A&M University.    As a sophomore in 2017-18, Williams (6-10, 241 lbs.) led the Southeastern Conference in rebounding with 9.2 boards per game.    He was also named Co-SEC Defensive Player of the Year after producing a conference-best 78 blocked shots, the second-most    by any player in school history.    The Shreveport, LA native burst onto the collegiate scene as a freshman in 2016-17, averaging 11.9 points (55.8% FG), 8.2    rebounds and 2.5 blocked shots in his first season with the Aggies. He earned Second Team All-SEC and SEC All-Freshman    Team honors, in addition to being named the SEC Defensive Player of the Year.    Williams will wear No. 44 for the Celtics.

BOSTON – The Boston Celtics announced today that they have waived forward Ben Bentil. Bentil appeared in three games for the Celtics during the 2016 preseason and averaged 5.0 points, and 4.3 rebounds in 12.9 minutes per game. Bentil was selected by the Celtics with the 51st overall pick during the second round of the 2016 NBA Draft.
BOSTON, MA – Celtics forward Gordon Hayward today underwent successful surgery to remove the plate and screws that were implanted following the broken fibula he suffered on October 17. Hayward’s ankle and fibula are both structurally sound, and the removal of the plate and screws was necessary as they were causing irritation to his peroneal tendons. He is scheduled to return to basketball activities in six to eight weeks, and is expected to be at full strength for the start of training camp.Additionally, Celtics center Aron Baynes underwent successful nasal septoplasty surgery for a nasal fracture he suffered during Game 6 of Boston’s Eastern Conference Finals series against Cleveland. Baynes is expected to return to basketball activities in two to four weeks.

The Boston Celtics announced today that guard Kyrie Irving will tomorrow undergo a minimally invasive procedure to alleviate irritation in his left knee. Further information will be provided following tomorrow’s procedure, and the team will have no further comment until that time.

The Boston Celtics announced today that they have signed 10-time NBA All-Star and 19-year veteran Paul Pierce to a contract, enabling him to retire as a member of the organization with which he spent his first 15 NBA seasons.“We’re honored that Paul has chosen to retire as a Celtic. He is among the very best Celtics – a champion on and off the court,” said Celtics governor and managing partner Wyc Grousbeck. “We congratulate Paul on a Hall of Fame career, and look forward to seeing his number raised to the rafters of TD Garden.”"It's an honor to have this opportunity to once again call myself a Boston Celtic," Pierce said. "The organization and city took me in and made me one of their own, and I couldn’t imagine ending my career any other way. I’m a Celtic for life.” Drafted by the Celtics with the 10th overall pick of the 1998 NBA Draft, Pierce’s 15 seasons in Boston from 1998-99 to 2012-13 trails only John Havlicek (16) for the most ever spent in a Celtics uniform. He produced 21.8 points (44.7% FG, 37.0% 3-PT, 80.6% FT), 6.0 rebounds, 3.9 assists, 1.44 steals and 36.6 minutes in 1,102 career games (1,099 starts) in the green and white.Pierce’s name will forever be a constant throughout the Celtics’ all-time leaderboards. The California native tops the franchise lists in three-point field goals (1,823), free throws (6,434) and steals (1,583), while also placing as the Celtics’ second all-time leading scorer with 24,021 career points. Earning his iconic nickname “The Truth” during his third NBA season in 2000-01, Pierce also retires in the organization’s top-10 lists in games played (3rd  – 1 ,102), minutes played (3rd – 40,360), field goals (3rd – 7,882), field goal attempts (2nd – 17,630), three-point field goal attempts (1st – 4,928), free throw attempts (1st – 7,979), offensive rebounds (8th – 1,008), rebounds (7th – 6,651), assists (5th – 4,305) and blocked shots (4th – 668).Pierce’s knack for postseason success further cements his legendary status in a Celtics uniform. Boston qualified for the playoffs in 10 of Pierce’s 15 seasons with the team, ranking him seventh on the franchise’s all-time playoff leaderboard with 136 postseason games played. The crafty forward averaged 20.9 points (41.9% FG, 33.9% 3-PT, 83.4% FT), 6.4 rebounds, 4.0 assists and 1.32 steals in 39.8 minutes in his Celtics playoff career. Pierce – who owns the fifth most playoff points in franchise history at 2,843 – averaged north of 20.0 points in six separate postseason runs, including a playoff career-high 27.1 points over 10 games in just his second career playoff appearance in 2002-03.One of Pierce’s greatest postseason accomplishments coincides with the Celtics’ most recent NBA title in 2008. Making his first career NBA Finals appearance, Pierce followed up a 22-point performance against the Los Angeles Lakers in a Game 1 victory with 28 more points on 9-of-16 shooting (4-4 3-PT) and eight assists in Boston’s Game 2 triumph. His 38 points in Game 5 of those Finals represented his second-highest scoring total in 26 postseason games that year. Pierce produced 21.8 points (43.2% FG, 39.3% 3-PT, 83.0% FT), 4.5 rebounds, 6.3 assists, 1.08 steals and 38.8 minutes in that six-game series, helping the Celtics raise their NBA-record 17th championship banner and their first since 1986. Named the Most Valuable Player of that 2008 clash, Pierce became the third Celtic ever to earn MVP honors in his first NBA Finals Appearance (Jo Jo White – 1974, Cedric Maxwell – 1981).Spanning over his 19-year NBA career, Pierce averaged 19.7 points (44.5% FG, 36.8% 3-PT, 80.6% FT), 5.6 rebounds, 3.5 assists, 1.31 steals and 34.2 minutes in 1,343 games (1,285 starts) with Boston, Brooklyn, Washington and the LA Clippers. He ended the 2016-17 season as the only active NBA player with at least 25,000 career points, 7,000 rebounds and 4,500 assists.

BOSTON – The Boston Celtics announced today that they have acquired the third overall selection of the 2017 NBA Draft and the favorably-protected rights to a future first round pick from the Philadelphia 76ers in exchange for the first overall pick in this year’s draft.The future first round pick will be the Los Angeles Lakers’ 2018 pick if it’s within the No. 2 to No. 5 range of the 2018 draft. If it is not, the Celtics will instead receive either Sacramento’s or Philadelphia’s first round pick in 2019, whichever is more favorable. However, if either of those 2019 picks result in the first overall selection, Boston will instead receive the other first round pick.“We’re thrilled to be able to select what we expect be an impact player with the third pick in this year’s very talented draft class, while also adding a highly valuable future asset as we continue to build towards Banner 18,” said Celtics president of basketball operations Danny Ainge.With the acquisition of these two first round picks, the Celtics now potentially own the rights to seven first round selections over the next three years, including picks from Brooklyn (2018), Memphis (2019, protected 1-8), and the LA Clippers (2019, protected 1-14).


Want to get the latest Celtics news, scores and more delivered directly to your computer desktop?  Now you can -- for FREE!  Celtics.com's new RSS ("Really Simple Syndication") feed allows you to stay connected to the 17-time World Champions.RSS is a standard format used to share content on the Internet and receive updates from your favorite websites without having to visit each site. Use an RSS reader to scan headlines and click the link if you are interested in reading more.  And you'll always have the latest information because your RSS reader automatically retrieves the RSS feeds.You can use an online RSS reader, which works from any web browser, or you can download software that runs on your computer.  Some RSS readers are free, and some are available for a fee. Popular readers include:

LAS VEGAS – Marcus Smart went down Thursday night, but that fact allowed Terry Rozier to rise up.Rozier took over during clutch time of Thursday night’s game against Portland to lead the Celtics to a 91-85 victory.  He scored Boston’s final eight points of regulation to turn what was a tie ballgame into a six-point win.“The coaches believed in me.  My teammates believed in me,” Rozier confidently stated after the game.  “They gave me space to make plays, and that’s what I did.”The most important play of the stretch arrived with 44.7 seconds left on the clock.  With the score knotted up at 85-85, Rozier took possession of the ball on the left wing as the shot clocked ticked into single digits.  His defender was draped all over him but he still opted to fire up a 3-pointer that caught nothing but net to give the C’s a lead they would never relinquish.“I knew he was all up on me, but I didn’t know how much time was left,” Rozier said as he recalled the play.  “We were kind of winding down the shot clock, so I just wanted to get it up and get a high arc and it dropped.”Boston got a stop on the ensuing possession and Rozier iced the game with three free throws over the final 16.7 seconds.  He scored a team-high 19 points, including 10 during the fourth quarter.Rozier’s summer league coach, Micah Shrewsberry, couldn’t say enough good things about the young point guard following the contest.   He used the word “poise” and “maturity” to describe Rozier’s performance; those are not words that are typically associated with rookies.One thing Shrewsberry couldn’t say was that he was surprised by Rozier’s clutch performance.“I’m sure he’s had opportunities like that at Louisville before,” he said, “and that’s why he didn’t seem rattled when we called his number out of a timeout and told him, ‘Hey, we need a bucket right here.’”Rozier later gave context as to why he wasn’t rattled by the circumstances of the game.“I know I have the ultimate eye of confidence to take a shot down the stretch if a coach needs me to do it,” said Rozier.  “I’m not afraid of taking big shots and things like that.  It’s a 50-50 chance.  It might go in, it might not, but I’m not scared to take it.”Now the Celtics know that in Smart’s absence, they still have a point guard who can carry them to a win down the stretch.  Ironically, it took an unfortunate injury to Smart for Rozier’s clutch gene to show face.With Smart now out of the lineup, Rozier says that he expects his role to expand.  He does want to warn everyone, however, that they shouldn’t expect him focus solely on scoring the rock.“I’m going to find my minutes to do something really well to help my team,” he said, “whether that’s pushing the ball really fast down the court and trying to beat them up the court, rebounding at the guard spot or something else, I’m going to get in there and do it.”He sure did “it” Thursday night.  The rookie rose up during clutch time and kept Boston’s pursuit of a summer league championship alive.

WALTHAM, Mass. – Gaining and maintaining confidence is vital for a rookie as he treks through his first NBA preseason experience. Through four exhibition games with the Celtics, it appears to be an attribute that Boston rookie R.J. Hunter is not lacking in, as he has played with poise on both ends of the floor and seems very comfortable with Brad Stevens’ system.Of course, it does help that he has known his coach for a large portion of his life, as the Stevens and Hunter households have been close for many years.“Our families always knew each other and we’ve always kept in touch,” said Hunter, whose father Ron coached at Indiana University – Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) while Stevens was at the helm at Butler University.That relationship enabled Stevens to keep a eye on Hunter's game since he was 12 years old, and the coach has kept close track of the progression he’s made since then. Prior to Boston’s practice on Saturday, Stevens noted that Hunter’s confidence was not as evident early on in his playing career.“He was not a well-established, highly-ranked prospect as a 16 or 17-year-old high school [athlete],” recalled Stevens. “He was a guy that was trying to figure out how to be at that level. He was really thin, even compared to now, and he was really passive.”Stevens said Hunter had a ceiling, but did not scratch at it until his senior season of high school. Being a late bloomer like that takes a hit on the college recruiting process and likely the draft process as well. However, Hunter has blossomed over the last few years and continues to do so at a high rate, thanks to the poise he’s developed and the high basketball IQ that is common among coaches’ sons.On Wednesday night, Hunter saw his first action against an NBA team as the C’s faced off against the Nets for a preseason matchup in Brooklyn. He played 30 minutes in the win and filled up the stat sheet with 11 points, four assists, four rebounds and a game-high four steals.“I think he’s figuring out his spots on offense,” said Stevens. “Defensively he has some really good moments. He’s way ahead of where I thought he would be, but I think that he could still go a long way.”Hunter may have a long way to go, but the monumental strides he has made over the last few weeks provide strong indication that his work ethic should carry him to success.At the moment, the 6-foot-5 sharpshooter looks like a completely different player than the nervous wide-eyed rookie we saw during the first few games of Summer League in Salt Lake City three months ago.Hunter's confidence has grown exponentially since then, and that’s what he believes is driving his early progression.“If you tell yourself that you can play in this league, I think things start slowing down for you,” Hunter explained.His coach has had faith in him early on as well. Hunter played 51 minutes during the team’s two games in New York this past week, and Stevens threw a curveball at the rookie by allowing him to run the point during the fourth quarter of Friday night’s loss to the Knicks. Hunter said after the game that he hadn’t played point guard since middle school, but Stevens is all about experimentation during the preseason, so he tossed him out there to see how he would manage a ball handling role. Keep note, it’s unlikely we will see him run the point during the season.“I think he could definitely do it,” said Stevens, before adding with a smile that it “might be 10 years again till he does it.”On a serious note, Stevens said Hunter “really has the ability to pass in small areas, but I just wouldn’t want to put him through the stress of being a point guard and to make shots.”Though it is likely that Hunter will not run the point again anytime soon, he did have a few shining moments from the position Friday night. He looked particularly comfortable dishing to Jordan Mickey, as he assisted on both of his fellow rookie’s buckets.“I think we’ve built some pretty good chemistry,” Mickey said prior to the team's practice on Saturday. “We kind of know what each other is going to do. He’s able to find me in certain areas and I’m always looking for him. Just playing together in practice everyday has helped out a lot.”Like Hunter, Mickey also excelled during his first NBA road trip. He played 24 minutes during the two games combined, and scored 12 points on 5-of 7 shooting, collected eight rebounds and blocked three shots.Mickey said during the first couple of weeks of the preseason, “I’ve seen myself grow a lot. I’m trying not to mess up too much out here and just make the right decisions.”He’s made a lot of right decisions so far. Following practice on Tuesday, Stevens said the second round pick was “dominant” during the session and was the best player on the court. However, Stevens noted both Hunter and Mickey have a long way to go and will “have some ups and downs” along the way.But they are progressing quickly so far, and the confidence they are displaying at this point is promising.

NEWPORT, R.I. – Brandon Bass remembers when the transformation began.  It wasn’t necessarily expected, but it was absolutely needed.It was mid-March of last season, when Kevin Garnett went down with a bruised left thigh.  Garnett, who was the safety valve and leader of Boston’s defense, was forced to miss 12 of the final 17 games of the regular season.The Celtics were built on defense.  That’s how they won games.  They operated as a cohesive unit thanks to extraordinary communication and teamwork.  Garnett was the man who was responsible for all of those traits.With their star big man sidelined, Boston’s defense would crumble, said many.  There was no way that the team could execute its difficult defensive scheme without the presence of Garnett’s voice.  Bass, who has been known mostly for his smooth jumper during his eight-year career, thought otherwise.“When he went down, I just felt it was right for me to step up and fulfill his role the best way I could,” Bass remembers.And so the transformation began.Brandon Bass the shooter became Brandon Bass the communicator.  He could be heard from the TD Garden stands barking out defensive calls to his teammates on the perimeter.  If the Celtics were an orchestra, he became their conductor.Many of Bass’ teammates and coaches lauded his efforts during Garnett’s absence, particularly former head coach Doc Rivers.  Rivers constantly noted publicly that Bass not only embraced the role of communicator, but he also excelled at it.Rivers wasn’t the only one who took note of that success.  Bass did, too.  He realized the impact that his communication made and he has taken that lesson into the first two days of Celtics training camp in Newport, R.I.“This year I can be myself, and I think that being vocal and more of a defensive-minded player is something I’ve grown into,” Bass said.  “I think I’ve got to be the one who just takes that first step in leadership on defense and being vocal and just having a defensive mindset.”Bass’ new mindset is standing out to his teammates, particularly Avery Bradley.  Bradley is another player who prides himself on defense.  Harassing offensive players is what he does best, and that’s why he was an NBA All-Defensive Second Team selection last season.Bradley was pinged twice by reporters on Tuesday about how different things will be on defense without the presence of Garnett.  Bradley seemed miffed by the questions and immediately pointed to Bass as the more-than-capable heir apparent to Garnett’s role.“I wouldn’t say that,” Bradley quipped after a reporter stated that most of the team’s top defenders are on the perimeter.  “Brandon Bass helps out a lot on defense.  He’s a great defender, believe it or not.  He picked up a lot of stuff from KG and he helps everybody out.  He’s like the veteran for the bigs and he’s been talking them through everything.”Next, Bradley was asked if there was more pressure on the guards because Garnett is no longer waiting behind them.“No, not at all,” Bradley stated.  “Like I said, we have Brandon Bass and he’s going to continue to talk to everybody and make sure we’re all on the same page.”As the new leader of the pack on defense, Bass believes that his teammates are gracefully accepting his communication and leadership.“Everybody is responding,” Bass said after Wednesday morning's practice.  “Everybody is like a sponge out there right now.  These next several days are going to be about everybody absorbing as much as possible.”While his teammates absorb Bass’ words of wisdom, the rest of us should acknowledge how valuable he is to this team.  He’ll still swish home those patented mid-range jumpers, but he’ll also be the leader of this defense.“If you look at when KG was here, it rubbed off on Brandon,” Bradley told Celtics.com.  “Now it can rub off from Brandon to other guys.”It's funny how things work.  KG transformed Bass, and now it’s time for Bass to transform his new teammates.

WALTHAM, Mass. – Following his Draft workout at the Boston Celtics practice facility Thursday afternoon, Maxie Esho walked around the perimeter of the adjacent media room while his competition was being interviewed by a flock of reporters.He was inquisitively examining photos from the Celtics’ 2008 NBA Championship run. For the recent University of Massachusetts graduate, it was a trip down memory lane.“It’s a lot of history,” said the 6-foot-8 forward. And having attended prep school in New England prior to his four-year career at UMass, it’s history that he’s quite familiar with.“He’s one of the coolest guys I’ve met from the NBA,” Esho recalled with a laugh.Esho’s favorite part of the event was when Garnett spontaneously took the group out into the street to meet the Boston faithful.“We walked out in the street,” said Esho, who originally hails from Maryland. “Out of nowhere a crowd of people just started following. It wasn’t a script, nobody knew about it, and we were just passing out T-shirts. You could feel the love that the Boston fans have for their team here.”Esho’s journey through high school, at Lee Academy in Maine, and college, in Amherst, has now brought him full-circle; it’s only fitting that his first Draft workout was with the team he is so familiar with.Like KG, Esho brings a lot of energy and passion to the game. For three seasons at UMass, he was the main spark off the bench and was a regular on SportsCenter’s top 10 for his high-flying alley-oop finishes. This past season, he earned a starting role for the Minutemen and averaged 11.3 points and 6.4 rebounds per game.One of Esho’s best performances came last November at the Garden against Boston College, when he scored a game-high 23 points and corralled nine rebounds during a win.He felt strong about the majority of his workout Thursday, though he was forced to stop early after taking an elbow to the head.He can’t help but ponder what it would be like if given the opportunity to return to the Garden, this time donning green and white. “I guess you could say it would be a New England dream,” said Esho. “I went to prep school here … college. It’d be crazy.”Just a senior at IMG Academy (Brandenton Fla.), he is the first player since 2005 to declare for the NBA Draft without college, overseas or NBA Development League playing experience.Despite Singh’s lack of experience, director of player personnel Austin Ainge liked what he saw out of the big man.“He’s a little raw, but he actually shoots the ball really well,” said Ainge, who jokingly referred to Singh as a “stretch five and a half.”“And he’s not just tall, he’s also thick,” continued Ainge. “He’s humongous.”It’s that size that initially earned Singh a scholarship offer from IMG.  His friends and family back home saw his potential and encouraged him to pursue a basketball career.“Everyone said, ‘Because you have good (height), good hands, your skill is good; you have to play in the NBA,’” said Singh. “So I said ‘OK, I’ll go try to do my best over here.’”He received no collegiate scholarship offers, so he decided to enter the Draft this spring.Ainge believes the 19-year-old has “a bright future” and is “an interesting prospect.” Only time will tell.
BOSTON – If Gordon Hayward’s New Year’s resolution was to enhance his explosiveness, then he’s off to a great start.The Boston Celtics opened the 2019 portion of their season Wednesday night against the Minnesota Timberwolves, and Hayward pulled all of his scoring tricks out of the bag during a season-high 35-point performance that helped pave the way to a 115-102 win at TD Garden. As you can see from his shot chart on the right, Hayward was scoring from all over the court against the Wolves. After missing his first two shots of the game, he went on to make 14 of his final 16 attempts, including 4-of-6 from 3-point range.What we are mostly going to focus on is that cluster of green dots below the basket. That’s where Hayward showed his greatest signs of improvement.The most notable struggle for Hayward, post-ankle surgery, has been his ability to burst to the basket. He’s made gradual progress with that as time has gone on, scattering a handful of explosive rim runs throughout the campaign, but nothing like he showed Wednesday night.Hayward continuously blasted from the top of the arc to the cup with ease, which opened the door for him to create numerous opportunities for himself and for his teammates. His aggressiveness led to a season-high three dunks, after tallying just four during his previous 32 games combined.The first play that we’ll take a look at wasn’t one of those dunks, but it still effectively displays Hayward’s improved lateral and downhill quickness.Late in the second quarter, Hayward finds himself matched up against Wolves forward James Nunnally at the top of the arc. Al Horford comes over to set a pick on Nunnally, of which Hayward curls around before lowering his shoulder and driving toward the cup. Nunnally is able to dodge the screen and actually does a great job of sticking with his man, but Hayward is able to adjust to the strong defense by pulling up and creating separation with his legs. He hangs in the air before banking an easy bucket off the glass.Thirty seconds later, Hayward delivered one of his most promising baskets of the season.Here he finds himself in the same exact scenario against Nunnally. Once again, Horford sets a screen, only this time Nunnally runs right into it. This creates an open lane for Hayward, who curls around the pick and takes off toward the basket, before throwing down the rock with both hands.Here’s a look at the same play from a different angle. Watch the explosion after his second dribble.Hayward also displayed his ability to find space and make intelligent off-ball cuts Wednesday night. Early in the third quarter, Al Horford is fed the ball at the top of the arc while the C’s are orchestrating transition offense. It appears he’s about to rise up for a 3-point shot, but then he recognizes that both Josh Okogie and Karl-Anthony Towns are closing out on him at the same time. Hayward sees the same thing, which creates a better option. That option is Hayward cutting to the rim from the backcourt. He catches Horford’s eye, Horford delivers the ball just as Hayward kicks into a higher gear, and then Horford watches as his teammate soars through the air for another two-handed slam.Scoring wasn’t the only method that enabled Hayward to show off his improved burst against the Wolves. He also used it to help create opportunities for his teammates, as he dished out five assists on the night.Here, during the first quarter, Hayward curls around staggered screens set by Marcus Morris and Guerschon Yabusele, receives a hand-off from Yabusele, and turns the corner toward the hoop. His aggressiveness draws the attention of four Minnesota defenders. As soon as the defense collapses upon him, Hayward hooks a pass over to a wide-open Morris, who splashes home a triple.Later on, we see Hayward use his burst in a similar manner to set up an alley-oop pass to Horford.After the game, Hayward acknowledged that he’s noticed a great difference in his lateral quickness from the start of the season to now.“It’s so much better than it was (at the beginning of the season),” Hayward told ESPN sideline reporter Doris Burke as he was doused by his teammates in a post-game Gatorade shower. “I think it’s pretty close to where it was (before the injury).”So, keep your eyes peeled for a more explosive and a more aggressive Hayward in 2019.
WASHINGTON – The Boston Celtics filled their final roster spot Thursday afternoon by signing veteran big man Greg Monroe.The acquisition of the 6-foot-11, 265-pound center should give Boston a major boost in the rebounding department, as well as a solid scoring option off the bench.“I think that's a great pickup for us," said Celtics forward Marcus Morris. "He’s a player who knows how to play the game. He's been around the league awhile, so I think he'll add to our size down low, (and add) scoring.”Monroe became available  Feb. 1 when he and the Phoenix Suns agreed to a contract buyout. The 27-year-old played only five games with the Suns this season, having been previously dealt from the Milwaukee Bucks in early November. Monroe played in a total of 25 contests between Milwaukee and Phoenix this season, boasting averages of 10.4 points per game, 7.4 rebounds and 2.2 assists per game, all while shooting a career-best 60.1 percent from the field and playing 21.8 minutes per contest.Over the course of his eight-year NBA career, Monroe has established himself as a top-notch rebounder on both ends of the floor, as well as a serious low-post scoring threat. He has put up career numbers of 13.9 PPG, 8.7 RPG, 2.3 APG and a 51.4 percent shooting clip from the field during his time in Detroit, Milwaukee and Phoenix. He enjoyed an impressive five-season stretch from 2012-2016 during which he averaged 15.6 PPG and 9.5 RPG.The No. 7 overall pick of the 2010 NBA Draft should be able to help carry Boston’s second-unit offense thanks to his burly, physical presence that couples nicely with a strong set of post-up skills.“He's a big body," said Morris. "Even if he's not scoring, he's carving space for other guys to be able to drive. He's well respected around the league so that goes a long way. I think he's going to be a great piece for us going forward."Another benefit of having Monroe on the Celtics is that the team no longer has to face him. He has been a matchup nightmare for Boston throughout his career, having averaged 15.6 PPG, 9.2 RPG and 2.5 APG during 26 appearances against the C’s.Monroe has also proven that he is capable of stepping up in the Playoffs. He was a major contributor off the bench for the Bucks last postseason, as he averaged 13.2 PPG and 7.3 RPG, while playing 23.5 MPG.Leading up to this year’s Playoffs, the Celtics will do their best to integrate Monroe and get him used to their system so that he can potentially help boost the team on a lengthy postseason run.“That’s always a challenge,” admitted coach Brad Stevens, “but I think that’s something that, any time you’re in this business, you get used to being on your toes and making sure that you’re able and you’re ready to do those types of things.”Boston will start the process of integrating Monroe immediately, as he is expected to be available to make his Celtics debut tonight against the Washington Wizards at Capital One Arena.

BOSTON – Kyrie Irving, just eight days removed from left knee surgery, walked crutch-less Sunday afternoon into TD Garden to cheer on his Boston Celtics for the first game of their Eastern Conference Quarterfinals matchup against the Milwaukee Bucks.Many fans and members of the media were surprised, not just to see the rehabbing point guard in the arena, but to see him walking around without a noticeable limp and without any type of assistive walking device.It turns out, they weren’t the only ones who were shocked. Even C’s coach Brad Stevens raised an eyebrow at Irving’s mobility as he entered the packed venue to watch the Celtics take Game 1 over the Bucks, 113-107.“The first time I saw him, when I saw him the other day he was walking around, I was surprised too,” Stevens recalled Monday afternoon in a conference call with the media.Irving underwent season-ending knee surgery April 7 to remove two screws in his left knee that had been inserted after he broke his patella during the 2015 NBA Finals. The All-Star point guard had previously undergone surgery March 24 to remove a tension wire in the knee in order to relieve some discomfort that he had been experiencing throughout some of the season. However, it was later discovered that the remaining screws developed a bacterial infection that would call for another procedure and force him to miss the remainder of the season.It will likely take Irving four to five months to recover from the operation, but seeing him up and about and back on the sideline so soon after the procedure was uplifting for Stevens.“I had just got done literally 10 minutes ago talking to our training staff and the people who are working most closely with him, and they feel great about his early [progress] a week in, or whatever it is,” Stevens said during the call. “That’s exciting, that’s encouraging. Again, he’s going to make a full recovery. Now that the screws are out and now that you see his early progress, it is very good.”In the meantime, Irving can still contribute to the team by being present on the sideline and offering support. Even if he’s not on the floor, Irving’s presence alone is enough to give Boston a boost. He, along with fellow injured teammates Marcus Smart and Daniel Theis, were three of the loudest, most encouraging fans in the building Sunday afternoon, as they helped guide their teammates to a Game 1 win. "No matter if you are playing or not, it is about camaraderie," said Celtics big man Greg Monroe. "When you see your teammates cheering for you, it gives me extra energy and I am pretty sure it has that effect on other people also."Irving has also been lending a helping hand off the court. His replacement, Terry Rozier, paid him a visit two days before Game 1 to seek advice ahead of his first postseason start. Judging by the result, the visit seems to have paid off well.“He made me feel comfortable,” said Rozier, who tallied 23 points, four rebounds and three over 40 minutes Sunday afternoon, while leading the C’s to an overtime win. “He’s a great guy, and whether it’s basketball talk, whether it’s joking around, he’s great at engaging with guys. He’s a great leader, and I know for a fact, even if I hadn’t reached out to him, I’ve got him in my ear. I’ve got him in my corner.”The rest of the Celtics can say the same. Irving should be in their corner – at the end of Boston’s bench at TD Garden – for the remainder of the Playoffs. Nothing – not even the fact that he’s just barely more than a week removed from surgery – will stop him from supporting his teammates from the sideline, as they look to make a lengthy postseason run.
BOSTON – The Boston Celtics produced a multitude of remarkable team performances throughout the 2017-18 season, giving us plenty of options to choose from for our Game of the Year award. There was the Game 7 win over Milwaukee in the first round of the Playoffs, the 22-point comeback victory over Philadelphia in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference Semifinals, and the plethora of buzzer-beating victories to all take into consideration. However, there was one Celtics game that stood above them all – the stunning, 26-point comeback win against the Houston Rockets on Dec. 28 at TD Garden.During a season that was chock full of comeback wins, this was by far the most impressive when taking into consideration the massive deficit and the nail-biting drama that the matchup entailed. That’s why we’ve chosen it as our Game of the Year.Ironically, this contest had all of the makings of being the Worst Game of the Year, judging by how it started out for Boston. Playing on the second night of a back-to-back, the Celtics came out sluggish, falling behind 32-12 by the end of the first quarter. By halftime, they trailed 62-38. Boston’s deficit reached as many as 26 points during the third quarter and its win probability dropped to as low as 0.4 percent, according to ESPN.com.Then suddenly, the C’s flipped a switch on both ends of the court.Boston outscored Houston 24-9 during the final 7:26 of the third quarter, limiting the Rockets to just one field goal make during that span.The run helped cut the C’s deficit down to single digits by the start of the final frame, and they rode that momentum straight to the finish line for a 99-98 win.The comeback in and of itself was improbable, but the way it unfolded during the closing seconds of the game is what made it a finish for the ages.Fresh out of a timeout and trailing 98-95 with 11.6 seconds left in the fourth quarter, Boston had the opportunity to tie up the game for the first time since the opening tip-off.Instead, the C’s opted to go for a quick 2-pointer, as Marcus Smart fed Jayson Tatum for a cutting dunk to hack their deficit down to one point with 7.3 seconds remaining.This meant the Celtics would need another turn of fortune in order to pull of the win. And who better to deliver one than the king of winning plays himself?As Houston set up to inbound the ball following Tatum’s dunk, Smart draped himself all over James Harden, knowing that the pass would likely go to the Rockets’ superstar who had gone 15-of-15 from the free throw line to that point.In a desperate attempt to get open, Harden threw his left elbow into Smart’s chest, sending the Celtics guard flying to the floor for an offensive foul.“We were just trying to deny him the ball,” said Smart, who had held Harden scoreless on seven shot attempts throughout the game. “When you get up in him and you give him only one way to go, it’s hard; it becomes frustrating … We were trying to make it real uncomfortable for him the whole night, and he just lost it and gave me a little nudge.”The Celtics, out of timeouts, quickly inbounded the ball to Al Horford in the post. The veteran big man went to work on Tarik Black, before sending a hook shot through the hoop with 3.7 seconds to give Boston a 99-98 advantage – its first lead of the game.Houston still had ample time left to get off a game-winning attempt, so the Celtics needed to buckle down and get one more stop. Guess who came through again?Smart glued himself back onto Harden, attempting to bait the eventual league MVP into committing another charge. Sure enough, Harden’s right arm connected with Smart’s chest, and it was déjà vu all over again.Boston took back possession of the ball and inbounded to Horford, who was promptly fouled with 2.0 seconds remaining. Horford missed his first free throw and intentionally missed the next to decrease Houston’s probability for a potential game-winner.Eric Gordon pulled down the rebound off the second miss and launched a 75-foot Hail Mary, but the shot caromed high off the top of the backboard to put a seal on one of the most improbable comeback wins of the NBA season.
BOSTON – Long-range shooting was not considered to be one of Jayson Tatum’s specialties in college. During his lone season at Duke, the 6-foot-8 forward connected on 40 of his 117 attempts for a 34.2 percent clip, while thriving mostly from midrange.Once he got to the pros, however, something suddenly clicked for Tatum beyond the arc. Three-pointers started falling at a record-breaking pace, and at just 19 years old, he quickly became one of the feared shooters in the game.By season’s end, he was a shoo-in for our Sharpshooter of the Year award.Tatum wasted no time in his transition to the NBA 3-point line. Through his first 10 games, he connected on 15-of-29 long-range attempts for an eye-popping 51.7 percent clip.The sudden surge was turning heads around the league, but Tatum was not surprised by his start because he had been persistently grinding away to improve that area of his game.“I worked on it day-in and day-out, trying to get drafted as high as possible,” Tatum said after an early-season win against the Milwaukee Bucks. “I was working on the things that people said I couldn’t do well and shooting 3s was one of them.”Some pundits thought it was beginners luck, but Tatum’s rate didn’t drop at all through the first two months of the season. By Game 33, he was still shooting 51.5 percent from deep – good enough to lead the entire league.Tatum experienced a slight midseason dip, but never quite hit the “rookie wall.” He finished off the campaign with a team-leading and franchise record 3-point clip of 43.4 percent, while also establishing a Celtics rookie mark with 105 3-point makes.Tatum’s long-range percentage was also the fourth-highest rookie mark in NBA history among players who made at least 100 treys, placing him behind D.J. Augustin, Stephen Curry and Wesley Person.Certainly, it was one of the greatest transitions a player has ever made from college to the pros.With that being said, Tatum’s teammates and coaches saw from the beginning how great of a shooter he could become because of his prowess from midrange. They just had to convince him to step back a few feet and help him build the confidence to let it fly from beyond the arc.“We would play pick-up games in September and he was just abusing people in the midrange,” said veteran teammate Al Horford. “He’d just post the ball, shake and raise, and all that. But I think coach was kind of like, ‘No, we want you to get out there and shoot the 3s and save those (midrange shots) for end-of-the-clock-type shots.’”That advice paid off, and Tatum went to have one of the greatest rookie shooting seasons in NBA history.The scary thing is, C's coach Brad Stevens believes Tatum’s development in that area is just beginning.“For a guy with his frame, he shoots it effortless,” said Stevens. “I mean, he’s going to be able to shoot it deeper, and he’s going to be able to make it off running once he gets a little bit stronger, more used to it, and everything else. He’s going to be a heck of a shooter.”In one season, Tatum has already established himself as a heck of a shooter, and a record-breaking one at that. And that’s why he’s our Sharpshooter of the Year. 
BOSTON – The Boston Celtics have already plowed through their first 10 games of the season with a 6-4 start. Along the way, they have displayed plenty of promise in some areas, while also showing that there is still room for substantial improvement in others.Ten games is a small sample size to judge, but these first few weeks of the regular season have revealed a few early patterns that could factor into the team’s ultimate identity. So, here is what we’ve learned so far about the 2018-19 version of the C’s.The Celtics’ defense has opened up the season right where it left off last spring: atop the NBA rankings.While offensive numbers have skyrocketed across the league, Boston has remained steadfast on the defensive end, allowing an NBA-low 101.3 points per game. That number is remarkable considering that 18 teams are scoring at least 110 PPG, including seven of Boston’s first 10 opponents.The key for the Celtics has been their perimeter defense. Opponents of Boston are shooting a league-low 29.6 percent from 3-point range, which has helped the C’s hold their foes to a field goal percentage of just 42.2 percent.Boston’s length and versatility present a frustrating combination for opposing offenses, and that has allowed the team to continue to set the bar defensively.While Boston’s defense has been second to none this season, its offense has told a different story. The Celtics have been inconsistent on that end of the court to start the season, leading to an offensive rating of 103.5. Only three teams in the NBA have tallied a lower number thus far.The good news is that most of Boston’s offensive struggles came during the first five games of the season, when the team was just beginning to form its chemistry.  The C’s produced a 99.2 offensive rating during those contests, but then discovered a solid rhythm during Game 5 in Oklahoma City, where they staged a 16-point, comeback win. The C’s have ridden that momentum ever since, posting a 107.8 offensive rating over their last five games, good for 17th in the league during that span.By improving its ball movement over the last few games, Boston has been able to establish a stronger offensive flow that it started out with. And although the team still ranks near the bottom of the league on that end of the floor, it is at least showing signs of growth.One trend that has stood out on the offensive end has been Boston’s high-volume of 3-pointers. The Celtics are tossing up 36.7 triples per game, increasing last season’s rate by 20.8 percent. Only Houston and Milwaukee have attempted more deep balls per game.Boston is sinking 12.9 of those long-range attempts per game, which, if maintained, would be the highest average of makes in franchise history. The team already penned a new single-game franchise record Nov. 1 when it knocked down 24 treys against the Milwaukee Bucks, smashing its previous mark of 19, while falling just one shy of the NBA's all-time single-game mark.The Celtics have admitted, however, that they rely too much on their 3-point shooting at times. More than 37 percent of their scoring production has come from beyond the arc, while only 35.3 percent of their points have come from within the paint. Boston hopes to round out its offense by driving to the hoop more often, which could also help them create more contact at the rim. In doing so, the team would raise its sub-par free-throw rate, which, at 19.0 attempts per game, is on pace for the lowest average in franchise history.Gordon Hayward and Kyrie Irving both showed signs of rust at the start of the season, but that should be expected for two players who went several months without playing competitive basketball.Hayward has averaged 10.1 PPG through his first nine appearances, which is less than half of his scoring average from his 2016-17 All-Star campaign. However, it’s important to remember that he went nearly 11 months without playing 5-on-5 basketball following his season-ending ankle injury last October. It takes time to regain trust in one’s body after such a serious injury, and Hayward is going through that process right now, while also playing on a 25-minute restriction. Still, he has shown glimpses of his former self, like when he scored 18 points against Milwaukee last week to help Boston beat the previously undefeated Bucks.Irving, who underwent season-ending knee surgery in March, also displayed some initial signs of rust upon his return. The five-time All-Star averaged just 14.0 PPG on 39.1 percent shooting from the field and 24.1 percent shooting from 3 during the first six games, but it appears as though he’s turned a corner. Irving scored 28-plus points during three of his last four games, all while shooting 60 percent from the field and 56.3 percent from deep during that span.For Hayward, returning to form may take a bit more time than it would for Irving, given that he missed roughly twice as much time. In the meantime, it’s vital to remain patient and to trust the rehab process, because Hyaward still possesses all of the tools that made him into an All-Star two seasons ago.If an opposing offense gets off to a hot start against the Celtics’ starting five, then there’s a good chance that it will hit a brick wall once the second unit comes in.Stacked with defensive studs like Aron Baynes, Marcus Morris, Semi Ojeleye, Terry Rozier, Marcus Smart and Daniel Theis, Boston’s “Bench With Attitude” is a force to be reckoned with.The leader of the group has been Morris, who also happens to be the person who coined the BWA moniker. The eight-year veteran is off to the best start of his career, posting averages of 14.7 PPG and 6.9 RPG, while shooting 51 percent from the field and 49 percent from deep.Most of Boston’s reserves have the talent to be starters on other teams, and many of them have been in the past. But they have all expressed willingness to make sacrifices for the betterment of the team, knowing that this group has a unique level of talent and depth to make a long postseason run.
BOSTON – How have Jaylen Brown and Jayson Tatum, two 21-and-under wings, proven this season that age is just a number? The answer lies in the presence of two of their teammates.In Al Horford and Kyrie Irving, the Celtics have two four-time All-Stars who approach their on-court and off-court lives as basketball players in a truly professional manner. That type of example, as Dallas Mavericks head coach Rick Carlisle pointed out earlier this season, can make a profound impact on young players like Brown and Tatum.“When you pair really good talent with really good leadership on teams,” Carlisle said before facing the Celtics on Nov. 20, “guys get better faster.”There is no better example of that fact than in Boston, as Brad Stevens and Duke head coach Mike Krzyzewski recently discussed on Coach K’s radio show on SiriusXM.Stevens had just completed a meeting with Tatum before calling in to Coach K’s show Tuesday afternoon. Boston’s coach revealed the message that he had relayed to the 19-year-old rookie just moments before.“I just told him, ‘You need to think about how special it is to be great every night,’” Stevens said. “It’s just different. It’s just different, and there’s not many guys that can do it. And you have to appreciate the guys that can.”In other words, Jayson: appreciate Al and Kyrie, and take note of how they got to where they are today.Stevens said he relays similar messages to all of Boston’s young players, including Brown.Coach K, in watching Horford from afar and after coaching Irving (and Tatum) for a year at Duke, agreed with the premise of Stevens’ message, which directly correlates with what Carlisle said in mid-November.“You have two of the really brilliant – not smart – players, and talented (players), with Kyrie and Al,” Coach K said.Their leadership abilities are on par with their on-court skills as well, and that’s critical both to the success of the Celtics and to the development of Boston’s young players.Horford is a seasoned leader, and he has been such for more than a half-decade, beginning with the Atlanta Hawks and carrying over to his first two seasons with the Boston Celtics. He does everything in a professional manner, from his eating habits, to his work ethic, to his family life and community work off the court.“I don’t think you could have a better veteran to lead,” Stevens said of Horford, “because he is consistent in his approach, he doesn’t waste his time, he doesn’t mince his words – when he speaks, it’s worth listening to because he doesn’t talk a lot – and he always, always is about the team.”Not all rookies come into the league with an “all-about-the-team” attitude. Heck, some agent-player combos have steered themselves away from the Celtics in the last two drafts because they were more about their individual opportunity than they were about the success of the team that was drafting them.Brown, Tatum and the rest of the young Celtics (there are 11 total who are 25 or younger, discounting Irving) see the way Horford goes about his business, and it’s infectious.The same can be said for Irving, who requested a trade from the Cavaliers this past offseason with the assumed intention of being able to step into a leadership role. In Cleveland, LeBron James was the leader, and Irving was in the shadow. In Boston, Irving is side-by-side with Horford, working in tandem to set the bar for Boston’s team on a daily basis.“My feeling is that Kyrie has become a better leader, quicker, because he feels it’s more on him,” commented Coach K.Stevens then gave his insider perspective on what Irving has given the Celtics from a leadership angle.“The thing that I’m really appreciative of is he has really, really tried to just be one of the guys, and I think that has been good,” Stevens said. “He treats everyone from our equipment staff, training staff, coaching staff, players, PR staff, all the same. Players, whether they’re 30 or 19, he treats them all the same.”That is unique in the NBA. That instills belief in young players that they belong, and it shows them that they should never place themselves on a pedestal and look down upon their own teammates, regardless of how successful they may become.“Win, lose or draw,” Stevens added, “he comes back the next day to work, and he’s in here every day, and he’s a pleasure to be around.”Coach K commented on what he has seen in Irving from afar.“I think he always has a strong face,” the Hall-of-Famer said before explaining. “I tell our guys all the time, ‘You don’t always speak with words, you speak with how you look,’ and I think he’s become much more vocal, but he really has a strong leader’s face.”Krzyzewski continued, “He wanted the opportunity to expand his abilities, and they’re not just shooting and ball handling – they’re leadership-wise.”There is no doubt that Brown and Tatum have reaped the benefits of Irving’s new opportunity with the Celtics, which has been coupled with Horford’s refined leadership abilities.Think about it: What would Brown and Tatum look like if they were instead on a lottery-bound team that did not have any established stars in a leadership role? Would they be learning the right way to approach their day-to-day life? Would they be able to watch, in person, how special it is to be great every night?In Boston, they have all of that, as Stevens and Coach K outlined, and that’s a big reason why Brown and Tatum are proving that age is just a number if you’re in the right situation.
LAS VEGAS – The Celtics saw potential in Jabari Bird when they drafted him 56th overall in the 2017 NBA Draft and then signed him to one of their very first two-way contracts. Now, as Bird plays for the Summer Celtics as a restricted free agent, the rest of the league is witnessing some of that potential budding into legitimate talent.Bird was the best player on the floor Saturday night, as the Celtics fell 82-69 to the Denver Nuggets. The second-year wing scored a game-high 24 points on 9-for-17 shooting. He drew oos and ahhs from the crowd with many of his dazzling finishes in the paint, which, from a hang time perspective, were on par with the likes of the great Michael Jordan.“I mean I idolized MJ growing up,” Bird said with a big smile after being asked about his athletic, MJ-esque finishes. “I watched all of his highlights when he was with the Bulls. He’s just somebody I’ve tried to mold my game after a little bit.”Bird wasn’t on MJ’s level Saturday night, and he’s unlikely to ever reach such heights, but he was unquestionably the best player on the court while Boston and Denver battled it out.This performance was no flash-in-the-pan effort by Bird, either. As Summer Celtics head coach Jay Larranaga said after Saturday’s game, “Jabari has done that in NBA games, at the end of the season … He’s an excellent cutter. He’s an excellent shooter.”He showcased those skills – and then some – Saturday night.Bird earned every point that he scored against Denver. This wasn’t a performance during which he simply capitalized on open shots; instead, this was a performance during which he was creating his own offense off of the dribble and via off-the-ball cuts before finding a way to finish in traffic in the paint.Bird, who played all of last season under a two-way contract with the Celtics, is currently a restricted free agent. He said that he is not worrying about that status and is instead concentrating on enjoying the moment and capitalizing on his opportunity to don the green and white in Vegas.“Just try to have fun with it, that’s the main thing,” said Bird, who is always a ball of positive energy. “I’ve worked hard all summer, I’ve worked hard all my life, and I’m just trying to take advantage of the opportunities that present themselves on the court. And I’m just thankful to be with a great organization right now, and they’re letting me showcase my skills.”While Bird has looked great on offense during two Summer League games, having averaged 19.0 points per game, Larranaga sees an opportunity for improvement. That growth will be earned at the defensive end, the coach explained.“He’s growing as a defender, which I think is going to be the next big step for him,” said Larranaga.Expanding on the topic, the coach soon added, “We talk to the group a lot about efficiency. I think in the media and in the league you hear a lot about offensive efficiency and field goal percentage and all of that, but I think defensive efficiency in how you defend the court, how many steps does it take you to stunt at a shooter. And then also just in the preparation of knowing what your opponent is trying to do and knowing his best [ability] is something everyone can get better at.”Bird’s future growth at the defensive end may help him to earn a role in the NBA. For now, his offensive game is what’s doing the talking in Vegas, and it’s making the Celtics look like geniuses for snagging the athletic and talented wing at the tail-end of last year’s Draft.
LAS VEGAS – Jabari Bird gave the Celtics hope Saturday night, but he couldn’t give them a win all by himself.Boston fell 82-69 to Denver despite Bird’s stellar offensive night that featured a game-high 24 points. Bird shot 9-for-17 from the field, good for 52.9 percent, but the rest of the team converted on only 37.0 percent of its shots.“The harder playing team usually wins,” said Boston’s head coach, Jay Larranaga. “They played harder than us.”The Nuggets pulled away over the final 14 minutes of the game after the two teams went back and forth throughout the first three-plus quarters. After leading by only three points with 3:34 left in the third quarter, Denver gained the first double-digit advantage of the game when it pulled ahead 56-46 with 2:18 remaining in the third.The Nuggets’ lead ballooned all the way to 16 points during the fourth quarter while Boston’s offense sputtered and they cashed in on 10 of their 21 shots.“As a group I felt like we over-dribbled a lot and dribbled ourselves into tough situations,” Larranaga explained after the loss. “So we’ve got to keep the ball off the ground and we’ve got to move it to the second side more than we did tonight.”Boston managed to total only 14 assists and 26 made field goals during the game. This was after it tallied 18 assists and 38 made field goals during Friday night’s win over Philadelphia.Bird was the only member of the C’s who scored in double-figures. Pierria Henry logged the team’s next-highest scoring total with nine points.Bird’s performance, however, was a bright spot for the C’s amid an otherwise ugly night on offense. He scored in a variety of ways, from cutting off of the ball for open layups, to generating quality shots off the dribble, to scoring from the free-throw line. No other player in the game scored more than 19 points.“I’ve worked hard all summer. I’ve worked hard all my life. And I’m just trying to take advantage of the opportunities that present themselves on the court,” Bird said after the game. “And I’m just thankful to be with a great organization right now, and they’re letting me showcase my skills.”Boston would have loved to have seen its other heralded players log successful nights as well, but those players were quiet against Denver. After scoring 16 points apiece during Friday’s win, Guerschon Yabusele (seven points) and Semi Ojeleye (three points) combined to score only 10 points Saturday night. They combined to shoot 3-for-12 from the field against Denver.Meanwhile, first-round draft pick Robert Williams, who exited Friday’s game with a left knee contusion, did not play.The Nuggets were led by second-year guard Malik Beasley and DeVaughn Akoon Purcell, who scored 19 points apiece. Beasley notched 11 of his points during the opening quarter, while Akoon Purcell poured in 15 of his points during the second half.Boston now stands at 1-1 after two games in Las Vegas. It will have Sunday off before returning to the court at 7:30 p.m. ET Monday night, when it will take on the Charlotte Hornets.
LAS VEGAS – Two days after scoring only 69 points against the Denver Nuggets, Boston returned to the court and exploded into triple-digits for a 100-80 win over the Charlotte Hornets Monday evening in Las Vegas.The Celtics nearly matched Saturday’s scoring total through three quarters Monday, as they dropped 68 during the first 30 minutes of action. The offensive surge was keyed by balanced contributions from both the starters and the bench.Jabari Bird and Jarrod Uthoff led the charge for Boston with 16 points apiece, but they had plenty of company in the scoring column. Seven different Celtics scored in double-figures, including four starters and three reserves. Guerschon Yabusele and Semi Ojeleye were right on Bird’s and Uthoff’s heels with 14 and 13 points apiece, respectively. Pierria Henry also scored 13 points, while Hassan Martin added in 12 and Trey Davis scored 11.“I thought we played very unselfishly,” head coach Jay Larranaga said of the balanced attack. “I thought we shared the ball.”That trend started from the opening jump, as the Celtics tallied a whopping 30 points to go along with five assists during the opening frame alone. Charlotte, meanwhile, scored only 20 points during the first quarter.Boston’s dominant play was maintained throughout the contest, which featured only one lead change. It led by as many as 13 points during the opening frame, by as many as 15 points during the second and third quarters, and by as many as 20 points during the fourth quarter. The final advantage of 20 points matched the largest lead of the night.Larranaga said that his team watched film of its missed opportunities from Saturday night, and learned from what it saw.“We had so many extra-pass opportunities in Game 2, and we watched those, and watched how [few] times we challenged people at the rim,” he said. “Tonight we hardly ever did that, so I’m happy with the progress we made.”Charlotte couldn’t handle the sharp Celtics offense, and it couldn’t score at a consistent clip, either. The Hornets made only 38.1 percent of their shots during the game, including a woeful 9-for-31 effort from long distance.The contrasting efficiency of the two teams prevented the game from ever truly being in the balance. The final moment at which Charlotte had any hope of a win was when it cut the Celtics’ lead down to seven with 1:10 remaining in the third quarter, but Boston answered by scoring the next five points to regain control of the game from there on out.The Celtics now stand at 2-1 on the week after completing the preliminary portion of their schedule. They scored at least 95 points during each of their victories, but scored only 69 during their lone defeat.The NBA Summer League’s preliminary round will be completed Tuesday, which Boston has off. Once the preliminary round is complete, all 30 teams will be seeded for tournament play, which begins July 11. As such, Boston’s next opponent, game date and game time are all to be determined.
LAS VEGAS – Very rarely does a Summer League matchup reach “juicy” territory. Thursday’s looming showdown between the Celtics and the Knicks, however, is as juicy as an In-N-Out burger off The Strip.There’s the Atlantic Division history between the two organizations. There’s the fact that the Knicks are trying to build toward where the Celtics already are. There’s the win-to-move-on aspect of tournament play.But the key ingredient to the juiciness of this impending game is the matchup between Boston’s defensive specialist, Semi Ojeleye, and New York’s high-scoring wing, Kevin Knox.Ojeleye, whom the Celtics drafted 37th overall during the second round of the 2017 NBA Draft,  is coming off of a rookie season during which he was an important contributor to a team that reached Game 7 of the Eastern Finals. He averaged 15.8 minutes per game during 73 regular-season appearances and even started three playoff games.The role he was asked to fill during his rookie season was to alter the game with his defensive versatility, and to make open shots. He did the former at a very high level.Ojeleye is regarded by many, including Brad Stevens, as a player who can reach elite status at the defensive end of the floor. As Stevens said Monday evening of Ojeleye, “His ability defensively to keep the ball in front of him is excellent – it’s highest-level.” Still, there is room for growth. In that respect, Thursday’s matchup against Knox, the ninth overall pick in this year’s Draft, will provide a challenge to Ojeleye that he has yet to see during this year’s Summer League. Knox entered Wednesday, an off day for both teams, as the league’s third-leading scorer with an average of 23.3 points per game. He’s coming off of a 29-point performance against the top seed in the tournament, the Los Angeles Lakers.Knox’s game has opened many eyes, including those of Celtics Summer League head coach Jay Larranaga, who is already well into prep mode for Thursday’s matchup against New York.“He’s what the future of the NBA is,” Larranaga said of Knox. “A very long, athletic, skilled player that can play multiple positions. Can shoot the ball, can drive it, he’s getting to the foul line a ton. So being able to show our hands and not foul him on his driving situations will be really important.”That last part is the challenge of which Ojeleye will be facing. The 6-foot-7 forward wants to stay in front of Knox by using the skills that he showcased this past season, but he also wants to pressure the ball in the manner Stevens will be seeking next season.From Ojeleye’s perspective, that is a tightrope he will learn to balance as he faces off with Knox Thursday afternoon for the very first time.“You have to feel it out,” said Ojeleye, who is well aware of Knox’s offensive aggressiveness that has led to an average of 7.3 free throws per game in Vegas. “Sometimes too much pressure is bad, but then backing off makes him too comfortable. So you have to feel it out during the game.”Ojeleye went on to explain his overarching goal as he heads into the premier matchup.“I think at the end of the day, you just want to make him take tough shots,” he said. “Guys are going to make tough shots, and if you can force him to take contested ones, that’s all you can do.”That’s what Ojeleye and the Celtics hope to do Thursday afternoon, but attempting to do so will unquestionably be their toughest challenge to this point during Summer League play.Knox has arguably been the most impressive player in the league thus far. The Celtics, meanwhile, led by the defensive prowess of Ojeleye, have been one of the best defensive teams in the league thus far.That’s, folks, has the makings of a juicy matchup – one we all get to take a bite out of at 4:30 p.m. ET Thursday afternoon.
BOSTON – Most of Brad Wanamaker’s playing time this season has come near the tail end of games, of which the Boston Celtics are either up big or down big. So, the rookie combo guard was admittedly shocked Friday night, when Brad Stevens called his name less than nine minutes into the first quarter in a closely contested battle against the Dallas Mavericks.“Honestly, I was like, ‘What? What?! WHAT?!’” Wanamaker recalled after the game with a chuckle. “But I just tried to go out there and do the right things, make the right plays and keep the guys going.”He couldn’t have made much greater of an impact right off the bat.The Celtics were leading the Mavs, 26-23, with less than a minute remaining in the first frame, when Wanamaker suddenly caught fire. He personally helped to create eight points during the final 54 seconds of the quarter, feeding Gordon Hayward with an assist on a jumper and then knocking down back-to-back 3s of his own to give the C’s a 34-23 lead heading into the second. “Just making that first shot calms you down and keeps you on your toes a little bit,” said Wanamaker. “You’re just hoping for more.”So, Stevens gave him more – more playing time, that is – and plenty of it.Wanamaker ended up logging eight points, four assists and three steals in 22 minutes of action. All of those were season highs. He shot 3-of-6 from the field, 2-of-2 from long range, corralled a pair of rebounds and turned the ball over just once, all of which helped to propel an injury-ridden Celtics team to a 114-93 win.On top of his offensive production, Wanamaker also played solid defense. He primarily took on the responsibility of guarding J.J. Barea, who logged 20 points and eight assists during the last meeting between these teams on Thanksgiving weekend.This time, Barea was held to just six points and two assists, largely because of Wanamaker’s strong, tenacious effort to keep him in check.All of this was new to Celtics fans, when, in reality, Wanamaker has been playing like this for several years. He spent the last seven seasons playing overseas, where he collected piles of accolades.Wanamaker was on three championship-winning teams while playing overseas, for two of which he was named Finals MVP. He was also a two-time Turkish League All-Star, a two-time German Basketball Bundesliga All-Star, and he earned the 2016 German BBL MVP while playing alongside Celtic teammate Daniel Theis on Brose Bamberg.The 29-year-old gave up all of that international glory this past summer by signing his first NBA contract with the Celtics. He knew he would likely see his role reduced quite a bit in doing so, but that didn’t stop him from pursuing his lifelong dream. Taking such a path has earned Wanamaker great admiration from C’s coach Brad Stevens.“This is a guy that probably turned down a ton of money playing overseas to get a chance to play in the NBA for the first time, and doesn’t get to play and has never been through that in his life where he doesn’t get to play,” said Stevens. “So, you’re really, really happy for him.”Stevens wasn’t the only one.“I was ecstatic for him,” said fellow guard Marcus Smart. “To see him get in there… that guy, he comes into practice every day. He works not knowing if he’s going to play or not. But he comes in with a great, positive attitude every day. So, to see him finally get in there and get some minutes, get a great sweat going and knock down shots, it’s something that this team enjoys watching.”Wanamaker hopes that Friday night's breakout performance leads to more playing time in the near future. “I’m just trying to stay mentally prepared,” he said. “I’m getting a lot of feedback from my family and friends, they’re saying, ‘Just stay ready.’ They’ve seen the story many times where guys don’t play, and then the second half of the season the coach finally starts calling your number. “Tonight was my time. He called me and I just tried to do the best I could do.”
BOSTON – The Boston Celtics have been in a helping mood over the past week at TD Garden. On Wednesday night, they dished out a season-high 34 assists against the Minnesota Timberwolves. Two nights later, they one-upped that performance with a 35-dime effort against the Dallas Mavericks. Then on Monday night, they took their passing game to an even higher level, handing out 37 helpers against the Brooklyn Nets for their highest assist total since dishing out 37 against the Orlando Magic on Jan. 27, 2017.The theme of assists has brought about another trend over the last three games: blowout wins.Boston mauled the Wolves, 115-102. It galloped past the Mavs, 114-93. And finally, it swished the Nets, 116-95.“We’re moving the ball, moving the bodies, just trying to create opportunities for one another to make it easier,” said Kyrie Irving, who contributed six assists Monday night. Such offensive cohesion wasn’t consistently present during the first couple months of this season, but the C’s say that their developing chemistry is allowing them to find a better rhythm as a unit.  “The beginning of the year wasn’t so kind to us, and we fixed it,” said Marcus Smart, who led the game with seven dimes. “We still have a lot of work to do, but it’s going in the right direction. And it’s been fun for us. Everybody’s enjoying it, enjoying the process of working and getting better.”Added Marcus Morris, “I think a part of learning to play together, that’s just something that’s going to come.  But if the ball is moving, I think everyone is going to get enough opportunities to do what they do to make the defense collapse.  We just find the right guy, get it to him.  It’s easy basketball.” Over the last three games, the Celtics have assisted on a whopping 79.1 percent of their made field goals. That is nearly 14 percentage points higher than Philadelphia’s league-leading mark for the season.What has helped Boston to achieve such a high rate is that it is playing what Stevens refers to as “point-five basketball.” This is when a player, upon receiving a pass, will take no more than half a second to decide whether he’s going drive it, shoot it, or pass it off again.“We’re trying to get better at executing, playing together, reading things that are options in transition, playing faster while doing that – and while hopefully taking care of the ball, which we did at times tonight,” said Stevens. “If we continue to prioritize playing together, we should get better.”Another positive that comes with playing point-five basketball is that allows all players to get involved in the passing game. That was reflected in Monday night’s box score, as six different Celtics dished out four or more assists, while no one handed out more than seven.“Guys are moving the ball at an exceptional rate,” said Smart. “We’re scoring it, we’re getting to the spots where we want to be, and everybody is feeling happy.”Boston will look to keep the ball moving Wednesday night against an Indiana Pacers team that has surrendered 30 assists in each of its last two games. Who knows, maybe the C’s will establish another season-high passing mark in the process.
BOSTON – Jaylen Brown has always taken a patient approach to basketball. That’s because his patience always pays off.The 22-year-old wing has employed that mindset more than ever this season, as he’s faced the challenge of adapting to a reduced role with the abundantly talented Boston Celtics.At first, Brown struggled to adjust, as his efficiency dipped from the previous season. However, over the last month, he has made the most out of his opportunities while serving as a key cog for Boston’s second unit.Against the Pacers Wednesday night, Brown came off the bench and logged a game-high-tying 22 points on 7-of-12 shooting to help lead the C’s to a 135-108 win at TD Garden. It marked his sixth occasion reaching the 20-point mark in his last 16 games, after not logging any such efforts during his first 19.“I’m just adapting,” explained Brown, who also logged seven rebounds and three assists during 28-plus minutes of turnover-free basketball against Indiana. “We’ve got a lot of players, a lot of guys out there, so it’s just about trying to figure out who you are and where you fit into this team, and it’s going to continue to change. You’ve just gotta be patient, continue to work hard, and everything will fall into place.”Things have changed quite a bit for the third-year wing since his sophomore campaign. Last season, Brown started every game he played in, including 19 postseason contests in which he played 32.4 minutes per game while scoring an average of 18.0 points. The returns of both Gordon Hayward and Kyrie Irving this season caused Brown’s minutes to drop down into the mid-20s, which at first made for a challenging adjustment period.Brown shot 39.8 percent from the field and 25.3 percent from long range through his first 19 games in a starting role, before being moved into the second unit at the start of December. Since then, his shooting numbers have skyrocketed to 50.6 percent from the field and 35.8 percent from long range.Brown’s per-36 numbers have also been excellent during the last 16 games, as he has averaged 19.9 points, 6.1 rebounds, 2.8 assists and 1.5 steals per 36 minutes.“On offense, he’s starting to find himself,” said teammate Al Horford. “He’s starting to feel more comfortable. We all are with the way we’re playing. We all understand where our shots are going to come from, the type of shots that coach wants from us, and being aggressive going to the basket. So, I just think that as a unit we’re starting to understand how Coach wants us to play.”Horford added that a role change can be difficult for anyone, but Brown’s adaptation has been particularly inspiring.“He’s handled it really well,” the veteran big man said. “What I’ve noticed is that he’s really trying to figure out how he can be efficient and how he can make an impact.”There are several aspects that Brown has improved upon over the course of the season in order to become more efficient in the time he’s allotted. “Stronger cuts, better passes, better offensive decisions,” Kyrie Irving listed off. “It’s just things that you’ve got to mature as a player being on a great team … It’s tough for any young player, especially coming in and they have the expectations. But Jaylen’s doing a great job of just taking it all in, adjusting the best he can and learning from all of the veterans ahead of him.”Most of all, Brown has done a great job at remaining patient as he’s adapted to his new role. Just look at how it’s paid off.
MIAMI – Thursday night may have been the most intriguing night of the season for the Boston Celtics, and that notion has little to do with the fact that they fell 115-99 to the Miami Heat.Beyond the score were three storylines that surfaced, which ranged from a superstar keeping the lights on for after hours in Miami, to a once-in-a-lifetime moment with an idol, to a seldom-used rookie making a not-so-rookie impact.See? Told ya. You’re intrigued – far more than you were by that score.So without further ado, let’s dive right into Thursday’s stories beyond the score.Kyrie Irving, still dressed in his game outfit (sans the jersey) 50 minutes after Boston’s loss to Miami, was addressing the media in front of a white board in Boston’s locker room when, to everyone’s surprise, the lights suddenly turned off.“You shot the lights out in practice,” a reporter cleverly quipped.In a way, Irving did, and not during the game.Moments earlier, Irving entered the locker room in his game garb and revealed to reporters that he immediately went to Miami’s practice court to get a workout in following Boston’s 115-99 defeat. Although he shot 10-for-19 from the field and led all scorers with 22 points, the night just didn’t feel right to Irving, and he felt the need to change that.“I just want to feel good about my jump shot,” the five-time All-Star said. “The shots that I missed tonight were very makeable ones. And the shots that I did take tonight – I just wanted to feel good about it. That’s all.”Irving presumably went to the practice court with his individual coach, Jerome Allen, who was seen exiting Boston’s locker room right when Irving began speaking to the media, which was far after the rest of the coaching staff had exited the building.Irving went on to explain what he worked on while he was out on the court.“Just kinda imitating things that the defense was doing to me tonight, the pressure they were putting on me,” he revealed, before adding that he hit better than 90 percent of his shots. “And like I said, situations that I didn’t take advantage of.”Irving said that he would rather be in the gym working out than be out in the nightlife of Miami. He also suggested that the brief workout will allow him to sleep with a clear mind when he puts his head to the pillow tonight.“Just good to get some shots up, relieve some stress a little bit,” the point guard stated. “And after a tough loss on a back-to-back, it’s just good to see the shot go in a little bit. It’s just therapeutic.”Terry Rozier has always been very clear when discussing his idol. It has been, and always will be, Dwyane Wade.Wade is in his final NBA season and has created a ritual where he swaps his game jersey with opposing players following most, if not every, game. Rozier wasn’t interested in Wade’s jersey ending up in anyone’s hands but his Thursday night.“It was mandatory I got his jersey,” Rozier said with his uniquely wry smile. “I wouldn’t let no one else get it.”The point guard went on to give insight into the relationship he’s developed with his favorite player of all time.‘We became good friends over the last couple of years,” Rozier said. “He texted me right before the season started and wished me good luck before the season, and I told him, ‘When this day comes – when we play him today – I’m gonna need that jersey.’”Now, he’s got it. The jersey swap took place immediately after the game, and there were plenty of cameras there to catch it (as you can see up top).Robert Williams is a rookie. He’s not supposed to spark a dramatic comeback after replacing Al Horford.But that’s exactly what he did Thursday night.Boston trailed the Heat by 25 points when Williams replaced Horford with 8:14 remaining in the third quarter, and that deficit bumped up to 26 when James Johnson connected on his second free throw after Williams entered the game.Five minutes and 39 seconds later, the Celtics were back to within eight, with a real shot at grabbing a stunning comeback win in Miami.“Robert gave us a huge lift. He was excellent,” Brad Stevens said after the game. He soon added, “I mean, he gave us a chance, along with that group (with which he was on the court).”Williams was in the game alongside Kyrie Irving, Marcus Morris, Marcus Smart and Jayson Tatum – the team’s other four starters. The C’s pulled to within eight and gained possession of the ball, but a missed 3-pointer by Irving, followed by a trey from Dwyane Wade, seemed to zap Boston of its Williams-led mojo.Still, that can’t diminish the impact the rookie made. His energy was infectious, and it helped Boston to outscore Miami by 15 points during his 14 minutes of action. Only one other member of the C’s had a positive plus/minus rating, and that was Morris, at plus-three.“I feel like our energy was down tonight,” he said after the game. “It wasn’t what it needed to be coming from this team. So I just tried to bring energy and get open shots for our scorers.”And, according to him, his effort worked, because the C’s looked like a different team during their 16-0 run with him on the court.“I just felt like we came together, more than anything,” Williams said of the spurt. “That’s the most I heard us talk on the court all night, even watching on the bench.”Kyrie Irving later likened Williams to a “clay figure,” one which Boston’s veterans are helping to mold into an impactful member of this squad. Thursday night, however, it was Williams who was doing the molding; he molded the game back into one the Celtics truly had a shot at winning. 
ORLANDO – Al Horford couldn’t help but to laugh at the first question he was asked following Saturday’s defeat to the Orlando Magic."Did this game kind of feel like a microcosm of your season so far, with all of the highs and the lows?" he was asked.Horford laughed, raised his eyebrows in acknowledgement and replied, “That’s pretty accurate… That’s pretty accurate.”Indeed, it was.At moments Saturday night, the Celtics looked like a top-flight team that would blow the Magic away and get back into the win column.At other times, they looked like a team with no rhythm or cohesion, and a team that was deservedly outplayed by a sub-.500 squad.Boston opened up the game with a 14-5 lead, and then built a double-digit advantage heading into halftime. That lead hovered at 12 points until the final minutes of the third quarter, when the Celtics lost their way.While Boston’s offense went stale and its defense went sideways, Orlando closed out the third period on a 14-7 run that greatly impacted the game. Not only had the Magic pulled to within five, but they had also built significant momentum against the Celtics, momentum that eventually carried Orlando to a 105-103 win.This type of up-and-down play has been the hallmark of Boston’s season. Its ability to consistently be inconsistent has truly been remarkable.  The Celtics have gone from a perplexing 10-10 start, to an encouraging eight-game win streak, to now going 7-7 over their last 14 games.No one has been able to find the answer to solve their problems, and that fact is hanging heavy over the team’s shoulders.“It’s all I think about every day, unfortunately,” said Brad Stevens Saturday night. “But it’s my job, so I’ll keep thinking about it.”From the players’ viewpoint, Gordon Hayward added, “It’s definitely a little frustrating. Puzzling is a good word.”It is a word that’s applicable because, as Kyrie Irving noted after the loss, this Celtics team is superior to most in the NBA when it comes to individual talent and ability. Most of the players in the rotation have proven themselves on the league’s bright stages.Yet, somehow, consistency has alluded this group all season long.“We have stretches where we’re really, really good, and really tough,” Hayward commented. “And we have other stretches where we’re not at all.”Horford has an inclination as to why such is the case, and although his viewpoint may sound harsh, he did not hold back from revealing it following Saturday’s defeat.“I think we play hard at times,” he said. “I don’t think that we’re playing hard enough all the time as a unit.”Two questions later, he revisited that sentiment yet again.“One thing I can say is that we have to be able to maintain that high intensity throughout the game,” said Horford. “I kinda sound like a broken record, but that’s what I see. Not consistent enough playing hard. And winning is tough. And you have to do those right things every time.”Boston has done those things sometimes, but certainly not every time. As a result, the Celtics have been forced to endure many highs and many lows throughout this season, just as they did throughout Saturday night’s matchup with Orlando that resulted in another disappointing loss.

ATLANTA – Isaiah Thomas often credits his teammates for his nightly, high-scoring efforts. Most of the time he’s not being modest; he’s simply being honest.While many of his heroic, offensive displays appear to be one-man shows on the surface, the various skill sets of his teammates truly are what allow him to be so successful night in and night out.Friday night, Thomas notched a game-high 28 points in Atlanta, including the game-winning bucket with 2.4 seconds remaining that sent the Boston Celtics home with a 103-101 win.Once again, he refused to take full credit for his terrific performance, and instead deflected it upon his peers – specifically toward Kelly Olynyk on this occasion.Olynyk had his best game of the season as he notched 26 points, eight rebounds, three assists and zero turnovers against the Hawks. But it wasn’t just the numbers that made the 7-footer so valuable Friday night; it was the fact that the Hawks were forced to respect his hot hand, which took some of the attention away from Thomas.During the early stages of the contest, Atlanta’s tenacious defense was draped all over Thomas. Hawks coach Mike Budenholzer said ahead of the game that his squad would try to do everything it could to keep the East’s leading scorer from being effective.So Atlanta double-teamed Thomas out of the gate, but that just left Olynyk wide open.“The defense they were doing,” said Thomas, “especially in the first half when they were just doubling me and keeping two guys on me… Kelly is perfect for that situation because he spaces the floor and he’s going to knock down open shots.”Olynyk responded by knocking down shot after shot, and he finished with 18 points during the first half alone.“They’re a team that’s really help-oriented,” said Olynyk. “They tried to take IT out early, tried to trap him on pick and rolls, but he was making great early passes to shooters and we were wide open.”Olynyk was one of the shooters who was being left wide open, and you just can’t do that against a high-percentage 3-point shooter and expect positive results.“I wouldn’t say they were blatantly leaving me; they were trying to help on other guys and help on IT’s drives,” said Olynyk, who shot 9-of-11 from the field, 4-of-5 from 3, and 4-of-4 from the free throw line. “But in other games, if people don’t help, he’ll have 52 (points). So you gotta do something.”The Hawks were forced to respect Olynyk’s shot during the second half. They had to keep one eye on him, and one eye on Thomas when the two were on the floor together. However, one eye on Thomas is never enough. He will go to town if you don’t double-team him, which is exactly what he did during the second half – particularly during the fourth quarter when tallied 13 points.Boston is fortunate to be loaded with offensive spark plugs, whether it’s Jae Crowder, Gerald Green, Terry Rozier, or others.Friday night it happened to be Olynyk who stepped up, and Thomas likely would not have had the game that he had if it weren’t for the 7-footer’s hot hand. “He took advantage of his opportunity, and we needed that,” said Thomas, who dished out three of his game-high nine assists to Olynyk. “We needed every shot that he made, and he played big for us.”Big games from Thomas’ teammates often translate to big games for himself. When opposing teams are forced to respect the Celtics’ other hot hands, it eases the pressure off of IT and allows him to take over a game like he did Friday night. 

BOSTON – The Boston Celtics were deeply saddened Tuesday to learn of the passing of 71-year-old legend JoJo White after a courageous bout with cancer.The former point guard, whom the C’s selected ninth overall in the 1969 NBA Draft, spent his first nine and a half seasons in Boston, averaging 18.4 points, 5.1 assists and 4.3 rebounds per game all while earning seven All-Star appearances. The Olympic gold medalist established a still-standing franchise record of 488 consecutive games played that spanned from the 1971-72 season to the 1977-78 campaign.White played a key role in leading the Celtics to a pair of championships in 1974 and 1976. He famously played 60 minutes, tallying 33 points and nine assists, during a triple-overtime win over Phoenix in Game 5 of the 1976 Finals, and later earned MVP honors for the series.White, a gifted athlete who was also drafted by the NFL’s Dallas Cowboys and the MLB’s Cincinnati Reds, had his No. 10 retired by the Celtics in 1982, and he was later enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 2015.As spectacular of an athlete as he was on the court, White was an even more outstanding person off the court. The St. Louis native was an active member of the Greater Boston community, and he always wanted to be involved in Celtics events. He was hired in May of 2000 by the Celtics' front office as director of special projects, a position that he held until his passing.White impacted the lives of many players during his time in Boston, including former Celtic point guard Rajon Rondo, who happened to be in town Tuesday with his New Orleans Pelicans."I knew him pretty well," Rondo said following the Pelicans’ 116-113 overtime win at TD Garden. "He was probably one of my biggest supporters from Day 1 since I got here. He always supported me. He always gave me great advice, and his family, his wife, was very kind to me as well.”White spread kindness to every Celtics player, coach and fan that he came in contact with over the years. Former Celtics forward and current NBC Sports Boston color commentator Brian Scalabrine took some time out of Tuesday’s television broadcast to commemorate White’s genuine personality and uplifting spirit.“In 2010, before every game,” Scalabrine recalled, “he would stand at half court, give me a hug and tell me – every game – ‘You’re doing great; just continue to be who you are, and do what you do.’ That meant a lot to me.”Celtics coach Brad Stevens also had fond memories of the interactions that he had with White over the last four and a half years. "I didn't get a chance to know him real well," said Stevens, "but my times that I spent with him he was always super kind. He was always clearly really appreciative to have been a part of the Boston Celtics, and you just appreciated how he treated everybody. And when he was around, you could tell he had an influence on our guys and an impact on our guys. It's really sad. Our hearts obviously go out to the [White] family."Outside of TD Garden, former Celtics greats, including Paul Pierce and Bill Russell, took to Twitter to express their sorrow.The vast outpour of condolences spanning across several generations of Celtics basketball showed how much of an impact White had on the storied organization. His exceptional contributions on the court will always be remembered, and his gracious, kind-hearted nature off the court will be missed.
DENVER – Daniel Theis has quietly become one of the most effective role players in the NBA.The 6-foot-9 German forward, whom the Celtics quietly signed to a low-cost, high-reward deal this past June, is adjusting to the NBA game quite miraculously. He has been good, at the very least, all season, but he has been great throughout January.Monday’s game against Denver, during which the big man totaled 11 points, four assists, three rebounds, a steal and a blocked shot during only 21 minutes of action, was just the latest installment of a month-long stretch during which Theis has made an unmistakably positive impact on the Celtics.“He’s a winner,” said teammate Al Horford. “He’s playing like that, and those are the kind of guys that you want to have on your group.”Through 10 games this month, Theis has averaged 13.5 points, 11.1 rebounds, 3.4 assists, 1.6 blocks and 1.4 steals per 36 minutes. During those contests, he has shot at an efficient 57.8 percent rate from the field and 50.0 percent rate from long range. Those are outstanding all-around numbers for a role player.Theis has brought so much to the Celtics every night, and he’s a big reason why they sit atop the East with a 36-15 record.“Man, Theis is my guy. Not only what he does on the floor but off the floor,” Jaylen Brown, who hit the game-winner Monday night, said with a smile before rattling off a long list of what Theis brings to the table. “Good energy, good guy, always smiling, making jokes, great energy on the floor, what he does in the pick-and-roll in the seams, makes the right plays defensively, he battles, and he should probably get a little bit more credit for it.”He’s not flying under the radar anymore. Not with the way he’s playing.As great as Theis has been all month, he has been even better during Boston’s last seven games. He has caught a hot streak from long range, where he shot 53.8 percent during that stretch, and he made and attempted career highs from beyond the arc Monday night with his 3-for-6 effort.Theis has also become a high-level passer at his position. He dished out at least two assists during six of his last seven games, culminating with a career-best four Monday night. He had only six such performances during his first 41 games in the NBA.Theis averaged 5.2 assists per 36 minutes during Boston’s recent seven-game stretch. To put that into perspective, Horford ranks second in the league among centers with an average of 5.8 assists per 36 minutes. Theis is right on his heels.“I don’t think he’s going to be making the Larry Bird flip pass anytime soon,” Brad Stevens joked, “but he makes the right extra pass, he looks for guys, he can roll and catch it in the seam and kick it out. So he knows what to do.”The big surprise in all of this is how quickly the German big man has adjusted to the NBA. “People forget, because we’ve got JT (Jayson Tatum) as a rookie,” Brown reminded reporters, “but Theis is a rook, too.”Horford has been impressed by how seamless Theis has integrated himself into the Celtics. He was asked what has surprised him about Theis thus far, and he replied, “I just think his ability to transition to the NBA. I know that he played in a good league over [in Europe], but it doesn’t compare to coming here and having an impact.”Theis, now 25 years old, was playing overseas at age 18. He credits that experience for helping to prepare him for his first NBA season.“Maybe it’s because I played seven years professionally, so I know my role,” he said Monday night. “I know my strengths, so it’s easy for me to fit into the system. I would say that makes it easy for me.”The game has looked easy for Theis throughout January. He has become one of the most effective and efficient role players in the league, providing the Celtics with reliable play at both ends of the court on a nightly basis.“One of the best things you can be called in this league is consistent,” said Stevens, “and he’s very consistent.”Few reserve big men in the NBA have been as consistent as Theis has been throughout January. He has been everything the Celtics could have hoped for, and then some.
MINNEAPOLIS – The Boston Celtics are now 0-for-2 in their attempts to slow down Karl-Anthony Towns.  As a result, they’re now 1-1 against the Minnesota Timberwolves.Towns, the top overall pick in the 2015 NBA Draft, was unstoppable during Minnesota’s 124-122 win over Boston Monday night at the Target Center. He finished the contest with game highs of 28 points and 13 rebounds for his 32nd double-double of the season.“Towns had his way with us the whole night,” said Brad Stevens.And it started at the jump.Minnesota’s big man, who totaled 25 points and 16 rebounds against Boston back on Dec. 21, came out of the gates red-hot, notching 15 points and seven rebounds during the first quarter alone.  He shot 7-of-10 during the period, including a 4-of-6 performance from inside the paint.Such efficiency was the story of the night for the Timberwolves as a whole, not only for Towns.  Minnesota scored 48 points in the paint, where Evan Turner said the Wolves “made a living,” thanks to dominant play in the post from its bigs and dribble penetration from its perimeter players.“They manhandled us in the paint,” explained Isaiah Thomas.Stevens added, “I just thought that we physically got handled, especially by Towns.”Minnesota’s dominant performance at the offensive end pushed it ahead by as many as 16 points on the night.  It led by at least 10 points during each of the four quarters and nursed a double-digit lead for most of the second half.Monday’s contest marks three consecutive games during which the Celtics struggled against bigger, taller frontlines.  Derrick Favors and Rudy Gobert combined for 34 points and 25 rebounds Friday night in Salt Lake City., and Nikola Jokic and Danilo Gallinari combined for 40 points and 16 rebounds Sunday night in Denver.  During this contest, Towns and Gorgui Dieng combined for 45 points and 25 boards.“You have to figure out what you can do to make it as difficult as possible (against bigger frontlines),” said Stevens.  “That’s life in the NBA for everybody but four or five players really.  That’s just the way it is and you’ve got to figure it out and be as solid as you can be and make it as difficult as you can.”Boston did turn the tables on Towns and Minnesota’s offense late in the game.  Stevens flipped his defense into a zone, which forced consecutive turnovers after the change.  The C’s then began trapping Towns when he caught the ball on the block, which essentially took him out of the game during crunch time.Such defensive strategies provided the Celtics with some life down the stretch.  They trailed by 14 points with 3:58 left on the clock but knew that all hope was not lost.“I just felt like we were still going to have a chance at the end,” Jae Crowder remembered thinking as he looked at the scoreboard at that moment.  “It was just up to us to capitalize on it.”The C’s did so by scoring 22 of the game’s final 32 points.  They trailed by 10 points with 1:22 remaining yet whittled that deficit down to one when Avery Bradley canned a 3-pointer from the right wing with 6.2 seconds left on the clock.“You can never count us out,” said Isaiah Thomas, who managed to score 18 points despite struggling all night to catch a rhythm at the offensive end.  “We’re always going to give it our all and keep fighting and we did.”He ended his final comment of the night by saying, “We gave ourselves a chance to win, but just came up short.”Following Bradley’s 3, Zach LaVine made only one of his two free throws, providing the Celtics with a chance to tie or win the game with 5.3 seconds remaining.  However, Marcus Smart took the inbound pass three quarters of the court and fired up a 3-pointer that bounced off of the front of the rim as the final buzzer sounded.Boston did have a chance to win, and after the game its players were proud of that fact.  Yet they knew that the final play of the night was not the deciding factor in their most recent defeat.As Turner put it, “There were a lot of things that occurred prior to that.”Yes, a lot of things, such as buckets and boards in the paint.  Towns, the NBA’s most talented rookie, was the lynchpin of it all. 

BOSTON – The Celtics weren’t too friendly with the painted area through the first six games of their series against Milwaukee. Saturday night during Game 7, however, they became best friends, and that relationship propelled the Celtics into the second round.The Celtics controlled Game 7 from the opening tip thanks to their domination of the lane. They led for more than 44 of the 48 minutes of the contest while scoring 60 points in the paint.That total was logged after Boston scored no more than 42 points in the paint during any of their previous four games of the series. Its 60 points in the paint matched the largest total accumulated by either team during the series.“I just think that we simplified what we wanted to do offensively a little bit,” said Al Horford, who scored 11 of his 13 field goals from inside the paint.“We were more specific running a certain amount of sets,” he said as he continued his explanation. “We weren’t all over the place. We ran specific sets and just made it simple for the guys to make simple reads.”Boston sure made it look simple as it picked Milwaukee’s defense apart with an inside-out attack.Pounding the paint was clearly a point of emphasis from the jump, as the first 12 points Boston scored from the field were all tallied from inside the paint. From dinger-rolls, to layups, to alley-oops, the Celtics were doing it all.And while their previous box scores may not indicate it, the C’s claim that this style of play had been brewing in their system for quite some time.“We’ve been attacking the paint and looking to kick out a lot,” said Terry Rozier, who tallied 26 points and nine assists. “The past three or four games we’ve been emphasizing that.”That emphasis came to a head once Game 6 arrived. Boston scored only 36 points in the paint during that contest, but as the team reviewed the film afterward, it found something.“We felt like we saw some more openings open up in Game 6,” Stevens said of the interior.Once Game 7 arrived, they took advantage of those scoring pockets.Boston’s players rolled hard and cut to the rim with purpose throughout the night, and when taking the ball off the dribble, the did so with poise and power. Such play produced 47 shot attempts from inside the paint, which accounted for 56 percent of the team’s overall shots. Most of those shots fell in, as the C’s converted upon impressive 63.8 percent on their attempts inside the lane.What made things even more difficult for the Bucks defense was that after Boston established its presence inside the paint, it then began to capitalize on the open looks it found on the perimeter. The C’s made eight 3s during the second half alone after Milwaukee’s defense began to collapse to the lane.“We balanced kicking out with scoring at the rim much better today,” Stevens commented. “It’s probably the best we did all series, which is a good thing.”It sure is, because it was the key to unlocking a victory during Game 7 at TD Garden. The Celtics played with force while attacking the basket early and often. The Bucks had no answers for Boston’s interior attack, and by the end of the night, they had no answers for Boston’s perimeter play, either.It took six games for the Celtics to produce a game tape that outlined their recipe for offensive success. They watched and learned from it just in time.Boston realized it needed to get friendly with the paint. It finally did so Saturday night to spur a season-saving – and series-clinching – victory.
BOSTON – Much of the talk after Boston’s Game 1 victory over the 76ers will revolve around how the Celtics limited Philadelphia to 5-for-26 shooting from long range. What may be more important, however, were the 3-pointers that Philadelphia never attempted.Limiting Philadelphia’s clean 3-point attempts, and in particular those by sharpshooters J.J. Redick and Marco Belinelli, was just as important to Boston’s game plan as containing Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons. The C’s simply couldn’t afford to let those shooters get going and open up the court for the Sixers’ well-known stars.“It was pretty high on the list,” said Shane Larkin, who served as one spoke of a four-defender wheel that chased Redick and Belinelli around. “You never want a shooter to get going, especially a shooter like [Redick], top-five in the league. So really, you’ve got to focus in on that, make it of high importance.”It didn’t take long for the Sixers to realize that one of Boston’s top goals was to protect the 3-point line.Philadelphia entered the game having averaged 31.4 3-point attempts per game during the postseason. Redick and Belinelli combined to average 13.4 attempts per game.During the first half of Game 1, the duo managed to attempt only five combined 3-pointers, making two. By the end of the night, they had shot just 3-for-9 from long range – 1.4 fewer makes and 4.4 fewer attempts than their postseason average.The key to Boston containing the Sixers sharpshooters was its aggressiveness in jumping screens. The quartet of Larkin, Terry Rozier, Marcus Smart and Jayson Tatum doubled as Redick’s and Belinelli’s shadows throughout the contest. Philadelphia’s shooters couldn’t escape them.Larkin explained after the game what his group’s mindset was as it attempted to chase Redick and Belinelli around.“Just staying attached,” he said. “Those guys are always moving, they’re always active, they’re always cutting. You’ve just kind’ve got to stay attached to them, try to play physical and try to blow up those screens and just try to make it hard for them to get open looks.”Larkin and Smart, in particular, showcased an elite ability to jump screens and render those picks as useless. Their body position was consistently perfect.It was not a surprise that Larkin and Smart, or Rozier for that matter, remained in the air space of Philadelphia’s shooters. It was a surprise, however, that Tatum was able to do so.This was a unique assignment for the 6-foot-8 rookie. Larkin, Smart, Rozier and Jaylen Brown typically make up Boston’s foursome that is tasked with chasing opposing guards around the court. But with Brown missing Game 1 due to a strained right hamstring, Tatum oftentimes shifted over a position defensively Monday night.Tatum stepped up to the challenge, chased Redick and Belinelli around, and finished the game with the best defensive rating of any player who logged more than 22 minutes of action.“It’s very unique,” Tatum said of his defensive assignment Monday night, “especially with their guards. Belinelli, Redick, they’re constantly moving. You can’t relax for half a second, because they’ll get a look. It was tough.”But Tatum and the crew made it look easy, all thanks to their effort and their attention to detail.The Celtics not only limited Philadelphia’s efficiency from long range, they also limited Philadelphia’s ability to even utilize the 3-point line.Just how they drew it up during their single off day before tip-off.

BOSTON – Brad Stevens was reluctant to reveal his starting lineup to the media Thursday evening ahead of Game 5 of the Eastern Finals against the Cleveland Cavaliers. It turns out, something was up his sleeve.After dropping Games 3 and 4 in Cleveland, the Celtics coach decided it was time for change. So, he swapped Aron Baynes into the starting rotation for Marcus Morris, and it made all the difference in the world.Baynes’ addition allowed Boston to start off the game with a big presence in the front court, which was critical after losing consecutive rebounding battles by double-digits. With Baynes clogging the lane and battling Cleveland’s bigs on the boards, the Celtics defense was able to thrive. As a result, Boston won both the rebounding battle and the defensive fight, all while handing the Cavaliers a convincing, 96-83 defeat, and grabbing a 3-2 series advantage. From the start, Baynes was matched up against Cleveland center Tristan Thompson, a physical body-banger who has historically given Boston issues on the glass with the most recent being a 12-rebound, Game 4 effort.In Game 5, however, Thompson ran into all of Australia, and he couldn’t find his way around. He was limited to series lows of 1 point and six rebounds over 26 minutes, while Baynes countered with six points, seven rebounds and a team-high three blocked shots over 29 minutes.Cavs coach Ty Lue believes that matchup advantage was critical to Boston’s 32-19 start, which helped set the tone for an eventual win. “I think considering what happened in Games 3 and 4 when Tristan was great on the glass and finishing around the basket, to start Baynes with a bigger body, going bigger with him and [Al] Horford was pretty good,” said Lue. “And Morris came off the bench and had a good game (13 points, six rebounds), so it was the right move.” Stevens explained he made the move partly for that matchup advantage and party because it would allow for smoother transitions with his rotations throughout the game.“The purpose for that change was we're going to have to play big some. We wanted to play big a little bit more,” said Stevens. “But, it was more to get two wings off the bench so that we could then rotate our wings with basically quick breaks around the timeouts if we could, because we knew we were going to play those guys (Morris and Marcus Smart) a lot of minutes tonight.”The reason why Baynes was not starting earlier in the series was because Cleveland initially started small. During Game 1, the Cavs started George Hill, J.R. Smith, Kyle Korver, LeBron James and Kevin Love, so Boston’s best bet was to match them with a small ball lineup, having Morris at the 4 and Horford at the 5.It didn’t work out so well for Cleveland, as it was blown out by 25 points in Game 1. That prompted Lue to swap Thompson in for Korver, placing the former at the 5 while sliding Love and James down to the 4 and 3 positions, respectively.The Cavs played much better following that move, but the C’s continued with their small lineup until Game 5 when they countered back by going big as well.The lineup alteration went smoothly for Boston, probably because Baynes already had 76 regular season and postseason starts under his belt during the 2017-18 campaign.“I think for our team in general, it's the lineup that we were going with most of the year, or for a good part of the year,” said Horford, who finished with 15 points and 12 rebounds. “I felt like it was great for us defensively. They made adjustments after Game 1. We kind of stuck around with the same lineup. But I think that just by doing that, it was a change that worked in our favor.”Largely thanks to that change, the Celtics are now just one win away from a trip to the NBA Finals. First, however, they must return to Cleveland for Game 6. Which begs the question: Will the Cavs make a counter-adjustment with their season hanging in the balance? The C’s will have to just wait until Friday night, right before tip-off, to find out.
DENVER – It happens. It’s as simple as that.Sometimes in the NBA, you just run into a buzz saw, and that’s what happened Monday night when the Celtics ran into Jamal Murray.Murray constructed a masterful performance that sent Boston to an 0-2 start on its five-game road trip. The third-year guard sliced, diced and chopped the Celtics up in every which way as he tallied a career-best 48 points during a 115-107 Denver win. That total marks the fifth-most scored by any player in the league this season.Boston had no answers for Murray, but it wasn’t for lack of effort. As Brad Stevens explained after the game, the C’s basically threw the kitchen sink at Murray to no avail.“We tried a lot of different guys, a lot of different coverages, we tried to go small and switch, tried to do a lot of different things,” Stevens said, “and he pretty much cooked us all night. He had a heck of a game.”You can say that again.Murray got hot early and his hand never cooled off. He scored 14 points during the first quarter, nine during the second quarter, six during the third quarter, and 19 during the fourth quarter.Following the impressive performance, the Celtics felt regret for letting Murray become comfortable in the first place.“I thought he got a couple of easy ones that made him feel good right out of the gate,” commented Stevens. “He had been struggling shooting the 3 coming into this game, at least versus his level, and we left him early and he had that 10-point run in the first half when we were really scoring the ball. And from that point on he was just lights-out.”That happens in this league. The NBA is a collection of the best basketball talent in the entire world. So many players are capable of going off, and that’s why the league has already had 11 performances of 40 or more points already during the first three weeks of the season.Tonight, the hot hand just happened to be strapped to the arm of Murray.“It’s the NBA,” Jaylen Brown said calmly after Murray’s performance. “When somebody catches fire, it’s hard to put that fire out.”Boston now heads to Phoenix with an 0-2 record in tow on this season-long, five-game road trip. As frustrating as that record may be, it’s not as if the Celtics have played poor basketball on this trip. They’ve just run into two of the hottest teams in the league thus far in the season that were a few points better on two particular nights.In Indiana, they took on a Pacers team that had won four out of five heading into their matchup. The two teams went toe-to-toe until the final seconds, when Victor Oladipo connected on a back-breaking and game-winning 3-pointer with 3.4 seconds left.Monday night in Denver, Boston met a Nuggets team that had racked up the second-best record in the league heading into tip-off, at 8-1. Then one of their up-and-coming stars, Murray, turned into an unstoppable force.These things happen.Teams hit game-winners. Players catch fire and can’t be put out.This is the NBA.
PHOENIX – Phoenix never saw a Sun set like it did Thursday night.The locals wished they hadn’t. The visitors, meanwhile, savored every second.Boston incinerated Phoenix’s 22-point, second-half lead in what felt like minutes and put the Suns down for good after yet another clutch 3-pointer from Marcus Morris. Morris tied the game at 100-100 with 1.1 seconds left in regulation, and the Celtics dominated overtime en route to a shocking 116-109 victory.The dramatic, comeback win was Boston’s second such victory of the season and evoked memories of last season’s never-say-die team. That squad could never be counted out, and it appears that trait has carried over to this year’s group as well.“It’s good to know that we’ve got some of that stuff we looked like at times last year in that locker room,” a proud Brad Stevens said after the win. “We saw it on full display in the fourth quarter and overtime.”The Celtics trailed by 17 points with less than seven minutes remaining in the fourth quarter before Kyrie Irving put the team on his back. Irving scored 10 points in less than two and a half minutes to make it a one-possession game with 35 seconds left. Then came the final play of regulation, when he cut hard with the ball to draw two defenders, and then found Morris for the game-tying 3-pointer from the top of the arc.While Irving deserves credit for giving the Celtics a fighting chance, the underlying story beneath this late comeback was the type of play that fueled it. That fourth quarter, capped by the late Irving-Morris connection, was emblematic of Boston’s blueprint to success: trust, confidence, execution.“That’s who we are: the second-half team that showed up,” Irving said after the game. “Not so much worried about the shots going in but finding the right shot, the right player at the right time, and just trusting that each of us, we’re going to be selfless.”“It’s just easy when you’re selfless,” he said. “When you see two bodies in front of you, or a decision needs to be made or that extra swing pass needs to be made, just flow into it. Don’t even think about it. When you get to that point, then you know that the trust is there and we can continue to grow from that point.”Irving gave the team an example of selflessness and trust, while Morris gave it an example of confidence and execution. Stevens drew up a two-man play for the tie that involved Irving and Morris. Morris needed to execute a hand-off and screen for Irving, and then he needed to read the defense correctly, all before drilling the shot. He nailed every step of the play before nailing the loudest blow into Phoenix’s coffin.Morris explained to Celtics.com how he prepared himself to execute at such a high level while exiting his team’s huddle.“Coming out of the timeout, I just try to envision myself hitting that shot,” he said. “I’ve been blessed to knock down my few, and it’s all come from my teammates doing a great job of finding me.”In this particular instance, Irving was the one who found him, and his ensuing shot sent the Suns fading into darkness.Most of Thursday wasn’t pretty by any stretch of the imagination, but when that Sun finally set, boy, was it magnificent.These Celtics are proving that they can never be counted out. When they play the right way, with trust, with confidence, and with execution, they can accomplish anything.Anything, including erasing a 17-point deficit in a matter of minutes to put the Suns down in Phoenix in improbable fashion.
SALT LAKE CITY – If you keep playing with fire, you’re gonna get burned.The Boston Celtics learned that lesson the hard way Friday night in Salt Lake City while falling 123-115 to the Jazz.For the second time in as many nights, Boston fell behind by 20 points during the second half. For the second time in as many nights, it staged a comeback. This time, however, it came up short.After overcoming a 22-point deficit Thursday night to down the Suns in Phoenix, the Celtics clawed back from 20 points down to pull within four on five separate occasions during the final eight minutes of Friday’s matchup with the Jazz. That’s as close as they got, as Utah answered with a bucket each and every time.Certainly, the fact that the C’s were able to fight back into two straight games stands as a positive. It does not, however, overshadow the fact that the team has built sizable deficits in the first place.This time around, Boston allowed the Jazz to catch fire early and to maintain a hot stroke well into the second half. The Jazz shot 60.5 percent from the field during the first half and then rattled off a 12-2 run early in the third quarter to open up an 18-point lead.“You know, those runs, you can’t let (happen) in the NBA,” Brad Stevens said after the game. He referenced three spurts from Utah before adding, “Just can’t have those. Put you in too big of a hole.”It’s not often in this league that a team can crawl out of 20-point holes, so the Celtics need to avoid them moving forward. A key to doing so will be slowing down the opponent’s top scoring threats.During Boston’s last three games, at least one top scoring threat from the opposing team has notched at least 27 points. Jamal Murray scored 48 for Denver, Devin Booker scored 38 for Phoenix, and Joe Ingles scored 27 for Utah. That isn’t sitting well with the C’s.“We’re letting guys that we know are going to do certain things do those things,” he said after the game, according to Jay King of The Athletic. “That’s a slap across Brad’s face and this coaching staff who spends countless hours, countless days, preparing us and giving us the tools we need to go out there and to cut that off.”That trend has Stevens wondering what’s going to happen Sunday evening in Portland, when the Celtics will take on the 9-3 Trail Blazers.“Obviously with (Damian) Lillard and (C.J.) McCollum next,” he said, “they’re probably licking their chops on us right now.”Really, it’s the Celtics who should be licking their chops to get back onto the court and fix what has dogged them of late.Their defense simply hasn’t been good enough. They have allowed opposing teams to build huge leads that are nearly always insurmountable. They have allowed opposing scorers to score in bulk. That doesn’t cut it against quality opponents.“It’s tough to beat a good team if you pay 36 minutes of good basketball,” Stevens said.It’s time for the Celtics to play 48 minutes of quality basketball and see where that takes them. It’s time for them to throw some water on that fire and step away.
BOSTON –The best offense is a great defense. That’s a phrase that the hottest team in the NBA swears by.Over the past two and a half weeks, the Boston Celtics have torched opposing defenses to the tune of a league-high 125.4 points per game. They’ve won all eight of their matchups during that stretch, most recently downing the Atlanta Hawks Friday night at TD Garden, 129-108. And they’ve done it all while continuing to hang their hats on the opposite side of the court.“Our identity is on the defensive end,” Kyrie Irving insisted following a 24-point, five-rebound, five-assist, four-steal effort against the Hawks. “We have the ability to switch 1 through 5 at times, and we try to keep the teams out of the paint and make them take tough shots down the stretch. We extend our defense up at the top of the key so teams are running their offense with 15, 14 (seconds) on the clock, so we just try to pressure them and then use that to our advantage and create opportunities for the offense.”The Celtics’ defense created plenty of opportunities for its offense Friday night via the turnover, forcing Atlanta to cough the ball up 24 times over the course of the matchup. That led to a whopping 44 points off of turnovers for the Celtics, marking the highest single-game total of the season league-wide. Being on the opposing end of that feat was frustrating for first-year head coach Lloyd Pierce, but having helped out on the Philadelphia 76ers’ sidelines over the past five seasons, he also understood that those types of efforts are to be expected out of the C’s.“There’s a reason they’ve been No. 1 for the past couple of years,” Pierce said of Boston’s defense. “They really crowd the paint, they’ve got versatile defenders, athletic defenders, and they do a good job of staying five guys on a string.”The Celtics weren’t consistently staying attached to that string during the first quarter of the season, as they dealt with some communication and effort issues early on. Those have been corrected, however, largely thanks to Marcus Smart.The fifth-year guard was inserted into Boston’s starting rotation right at the start of its winning streak, and the team has leaned on his tenacity and leadership ever since.  “He’s able to guard multiple positions,” said Irving, “he’s very communicative on the defensive end, making sure we’re in the right spots, and I think that for him – most guys are pretty even keeled, but for him – when he’s all the way to his maximum, everyone follows suit.”When Smart’s teammates see him diving on a loose ball or taking a charge, that makes them want to do the same. It gets them all on the same page and allows them to play on a string.Defenses that play on a string tend to force turnovers, and turnovers often lead to easy transition buckets. The Celtics have had plenty of those during their eight-game winning streak, which has enabled their offense to put up some crazy numbers.“Our offense has picked up, obviously, in the last three weeks or so,” said coach Brad Stevens. “So, we’ve just got to make sure our defense stays at the level it needs to.”Because the best offense is a great defense. 
WALTHAM, Mass - The Boston Celtics took a massive hit to their frontcourt depth Monday in learning that rookie big man Daniel Theis has suffered a season-ending meniscus tear in his left knee. The injury occurred during the final minute of Sunday night's game against Indiana, when Theis' knee buckled while trying to defend Pacers guard Victor Oladipo. Celtics coach Brad Stevens was greatly disappointed to hear the news Monday morning, but he anticipates that Theis will be able to push through the rehabilitation process and eventually come back stronger than ever."I appreciate the way that he approached every day, and he'll approach the rehab the same way," said Stevens. "But you really feel for him. He was a guy that came in knowing he could play, but maybe not even expecting to have the type of season he had. And he didn't change that when we brought Greg (Monroe) in and mixed up minutes here and there. He just kept being who he is, and we're going to miss him on the court. But he'll have a full recovery and he'll be able to get back better than ever when he steps back out on the court."Despite the injury, Terry Rozier says that Theis was in good spirits Monday morning when he came into the team's training facility. As locker neighbors, the pair have grown particularly close this season, so Rozier is going to miss Theis' company on and off the court."He's fine. He's not down," said Rozier, relaying the interaction he had with Theis. "That's just the type of guy he is. I felt like I've known him for a long time and he's just a great guy. We hang out on the road a lot, so it's just tough to see it. All we can hope for is a speedy recovery."With Theis' season now over, the Celtics are trying to figure out how to best to fill his void. Fortunately, the C's have some depth in their front court, but they'll also have to get a bit creative in order to make up for Theis' defensive versatility against small-ball lineups."One of the reasons we wanted to sign Greg was because you never know what can happen with your depth inside," said Stevens. "But then there have been times where we've played smaller with Theis at the 5, and he's been able to switch and do some of those types of things. So, you might see Semi (Ojeleye) out there a little bit, kind of á la the Summer League stints where he guarded more of the skilled 5s and was able to move his feet on switches and really use his athleticism."Guerschon Yabusele will also be joining the C's following a stint with the Maine Red Claws, and Stevens added that the rookie big man "will fill a role."The C's will have more roles to fill than just Theis' for the foreseeable future, as they are battling a number of injuries to key players. Kyrie Irving could miss some time with left knee soreness, Jaylen Brown is sidelined with a concussion, Al Horford is home sick, Marcus Smart is undergoing tests for a thumb injury, and Shane Larkin is still facing a minutes restriction because of soreness in his right knee. And, of course, Gordon Hayward remains out indefinitely as he rehabs his left tibia/ankle.Because of the plethora of injuries the Celtics are dealing with, the team was forced to have a very light practice Monday afternoon. Stevens took the opportunity to bring all of the young players together and deliver a message that would lift their spirits during the time of hardship."Through all the things that are going on, he was just making sure that everybody still believes in each other and that the team can still have success," Rozier said, relaying Stevens' message to the media. "Brad's great at that - at making everybody feel special and making everybody feel as one."Stevens wanted his players to believe in themselves, because he wholeheartedly believes in them."We are equipped, and we will battle on," said the coach.The battle will continue Wednesday night, when the C's host the Washington Wizards at TD Garden.
BOSTON – Over the last few weeks, the Boston Celtics have begun to prepare themselves for what they hope will be a banner-winning season. All the while, they have been drawing inspiration from another local team that is within striking distance of capturing a title of its own.Coach Brad Stevens has been highlighting moments from the Boston Red Sox’ historic, 108-win campaign throughout Celtics training camp, with the hope of inspiriting his players before the start of the NBA season.Most recently, Stevens brought up the unselfishness of Red Sox utilityman Brock Holt. Last week, Holt became the first player in MLB history to hit for the cycle during a postseason game, doing so in Game 3 of the American League Division Series against the rival New York Yankees. Yet the next day, Holt was benched in favor of Ian Kinsler.Despite his career performance the night before, Holt was completely on board with the decision, knowing that Kinsler had a strong history against New York’s Game 4 starter, CC Sabathia.Having Holt’s type of unselfish mindset is something that Stevens hopes to see out of his own players this season, knowing that they will all have to make sacrifices in order to reach their ultimate goal.“We’ve used [the Red Sox] as examples quite a bit,” Stevens said Sunday afternoon ahead of Celtics practice. "The Brock Holt example last week of going for the cycle and getting a DNP the next day, is how you win, right? And being willing to take on those roles – both as the guy that did it and the guy that replaced him the next night in Kinsler – those things matter. They’ve set a great example for us as we move into a new year.”Stevens knows that many of the examples he shares with his players can go without saying, because there is such strong mutual support among the players on all of Boston’s teams.   “We talked about [the Holt example] a little bit in film, but everybody knows it,” said Stevens. “Everybody’s paying attention to what’s going on. And all of us, whether we’re transplanted or not, become fans of the teams here.”It didn’t take long at all for Stevens to become a fan of the Red Sox. He and his family were fortunate enough to move to Boston just a few months before the Sox hoisted the 2013 World Series trophy.“Ever since then I’d say our whole family has been hooked,” said Stevens. “And it’s just a blast to be able to go over there and watch them work.”Stevens had the opportunity to watch the Sox work in person Saturday night, as he attended Game 1 of the American League Championship Series against the Houston Astros. Although the Red Sox wound up losing 7-2, Stevens still had a blast going out to support them, just as he does with all of Boston’s teams."I get such a kick out of being a fan and just enjoying that,” said Stevens. “Obviously, it didn’t turn out the way we wanted, but hopefully they’ll get [Game 2 Sunday night]. I think that it’s just special to get a chance to [support] all these teams. Certainly, the Red Sox have had a historic year. They've always rebounded when something tough has happened.” Whether it’s an ability to overcome adversity, or an act of unselfishness, the Red Sox are constantly showing qualities of being a championship-contending team. All the while, their acts are providing great examples for their neighbors over on Causeway Street, who are hoping to contend for a title of their own this coming NBA season.
PHOENIX – Patience is known to be a virtue. Let’s have some with these Boston Celtics.Boston’s 6-4 start to this season has elicited groans from many observers. The media is overreacting, some fans are clamoring for change, and even the players and the coaches have been grumbling about their performance.There’s no getting around the fact that we all know the Celtics are better than this. They haven’t played to their potential on a consistent basis this season.But give it time. It will happen. This season is only three weeks old.As Kevin Garnett used to tell Celtics fans, “Rome wasn’t built in a day.”Or, as Aaron Rodgers once told Packers fans, “Five letters here just for everybody out there in Packer-Land: R-E-L-A-X.”You get the point – or at least you should. This is going to take a little bit of time, and it’s going to take a whole lot of effort.Talent, of which Boston has plenty, doesn’t always eliminate the existence or potential of struggles. In fact, oftentimes in the NBA, it creates them. There are plenty of examples in recent history.The 2010-11 Heat team, with LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh, got out to a 9-8 start to the season. They made it to the Finals.The 2014-15 Cavaliers team, with James, Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love, got out to a 5-7 start to the season. They made it to the Finals.The 2017-18 Thunder team, with Russell Westbrook, Paul George and Carmelo Anthony, got out to an 8-12 start to the season. They wound up going 40-22 over their final 62 games and earned the fourth seed in the loaded Western Conference.The Celtics are similarly loaded to those teams, and they’re currently experiencing similar growing pains.Things don’t snap into place when two of a team’s best players return from significant injuries, nor do they hum perfectly when four key players are adjusting to significantly different roles.Kyrie Irving went five months without playing live basketball, and Gordon Hayward went 10 months without playing live basketball. Both players are still working their bodies and their games back to where they were prior to their injuries. It doesn’t happen overnight.Irving, a five-time All-Star, struggled out of the gates. He didn’t look like himself while averaging just 14.0 points per game during his first six contests. Obviously, his struggles impacted the team during that period. He has finally returned to his All-Star form during the last four games, however, and averaged 27.0 PPG during that span.Hayward, meanwhile, is facing a far more steeper climb from the devastating left-ankle injury he suffered last season. No one could realistically expect him to return to pre-injury Hayward at this stage of the season. That’s likely going to take months, at the very least. He needs time to work out the kinks and rediscover his game.Again, patience.While those two players are working their way back to their former selves, Aron Baynes, Jaylen Brown, Terry Rozier and Jayson Tatum are all adjusting to new roles compared to those they played in last postseason. During Boston’s run to the Conference Finals, all four were starters, and Brown, Rozier and Tatum were looked to as primary scorers. With the returns of Irving and Hayward, Baynes and Rozier have shifted back to the bench, and Tatum and Brown are getting fewer touches and attempts than they did last postseason.These are very different roles, and new roles with new teammates require adjustment periods. The Celtics clearly are still in the midst of theirs.The long and the short of Boston’s story thus far is that it’s as talented as any team in the league, but it will take time for it to reach its full potential. That’s nothing new for a loaded team in the NBA.Irving and Hayward need time to work themselves back. Baynes, Brown, Rozier and Tatum need time to adjust to their new roles, as well as the new lineups that accompany those roles.Frustrations and questions are inevitable, but pull it back a bit. All is not as gloomy as it may seem.The Celtics are 6-4 and could easily be 8-2, all while dealing with the aforementioned obstacles and a schedule that Brad Stevens called “a bear.” They’ll figure it out in the end.In the meantime, do yourself a favor and heed the words of a famous old adage. Patience is a virtue, so have some.
BOSTON – Fifteen days ago, the Boston Celtics suffered what was perhaps their most eye-opening loss of the season – a 117-109 defeat at the hands of the visiting New York Knicks, who were only 4-14 at the time. It marked Boston’s seventh defeat over a 10-game stretch and its ninth overall, as the team fell to 9-9 on the season.But it also seemed to have marked a turning point for the C’s, who have since won four of their last five games, including three straight leading into Thursday night’s rematch against the Knicks at TD Garden.“Our identity is definitely forming a lot better than when we were playing against the Knicks that day,” C’s point guard Kyrie Irving stated following practice Thursday afternoon. “Just in terms of our energy, our focus, our lineup as well, and just going out there and competing and having fun doing so.”Through the first month of the season, that energy and that focus wasn’t there 100 percent of the time. Boston's inconsistency led to frustrating losses, like the one to New York on Thanksgiving eve, and those types of losses didn't sit well with the team.The last two weeks, however, have contained some of Boston’s most complete efforts of the season. Its offense has been clicking, its defense has been playing on a string, and as a result, its collective attitude has shifted in a more positive direction."Everybody's not hanging their heads," said Marcus Smart, who has recently joined Irving in the starting backcourt. "It's a little bit more daylight in the locker room, and it's good to see everybody smiling.” It’s understandable as to why the Celtics may have been hanging their heads during their November rough patch, especially considering all of the talent they had on paper.“Everybody was just trying to find a way to come up with wins and (figure out) why we were losing,” said Smart. “Nobody could find a solution, so we were all just upset – not at each other, but just with the situation we were all handed.”It seems now that the C’s have discovered the solution to their early struggles: to all be willing to sacrifice and play to their respective roles for the betterment of the team. “I think that we all wanted to win individually, but I think we wanted to win on our own terms,” suggested Irving. “And when you have that, when you have your own individual intent, I think that that could get in the way of what’s best for the group. So, I think we’re getting past that point now.”Some teams take longer than others to iron out their early-season kinks. Last season’s version of the C’s, for example, quickly found its footing after Gordon Hayward’s season-ending injury on Opening Night, as it flew out of the gates to a 16-2 start. This season’s team, on the other hand, has taken a bit longer to start forming an identity. “It’s taken some time,” said veteran big man Al Horford, “but now we’re starting to understand that we need to play at a certain level. I just think that we’re all understanding what our roles are, and it’s making everything easier.”With that being said, the Celtics also have to remain grounded. One thing they learned through the first quarter of the season is that they can’t take any opponent for granted. They’ll keep that in mind Thursday night during their rematch against the Knicks, who are now 8-17.“We realize the challenge is tough,” head coach Brad Stevens said looking ahead to the matchup. “I mean, the last time New York came here, they pounded us, every which way and so we’re going to have to play better.”This Celtics team, however, is different than the one that was pounded by the Knicks back on Nov. 21. In just 15 days, this group has grown into a more cohesive, positive unit, and they’ll look to continue to show that Thursday night.  
ORLANDO – One key factor stands above the rest in the reason behind Orlando’s 1-0 record against the Celtics this season. According to Brad Stevens, that factor is frontline play.The Celtics and the Magic are set to meet again at 7 p.m. tonight in Orlando, nearly 12 weeks after the Magic knocked the C’s off 93-90 on Oct. 22 inside TD Garden. Orlando’s starting frontcourt was dominant during that game, outscoring Boston’s 55-33 and outrebounding Boston’s 27-20.Stevens certainly hasn’t forgotten.“Their frontcourt had 55 between the 3, 4 and 5 (positions) out of their 93 (total points),” he said Saturday morning, after being asked what stood out to him about the Magic. “And so we came up short in some areas when you look back at the defense where we need to be better.”In particular, the Celtics must be better against Nikola Vucevic, who is making a serious bid for his first career All-Star selection with season averages of 20.2 points, 12.0 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game.Vucevic was the game’s leading scorer and rebounder during the first matchup between these two teams, as he tallied 24 points and 12 boards. Eight of his 11 made field goals that night were scored inside the paint, where he averages 11.0 PPG this season.The challenge of defending Vucevic around the paint tonight will be compounded by the fact that Aron Baynes remains sidelined with a left hand injury.Baynes is widely considered to be Boston’s top interior defender and rim protector. The Celtics have greatly missed his presence of late while facing off against some of the league’s elite interior players, as exemplified by the quintet of DeAndre Jordan, Karl-Anthony Towns, LaMarcus Aldridge, Marc Gasol and Clint Capela combining to average 22.2 points and 13 rebounds against Boston during Baynes’ absence.Coincidentally, Baynes also missed the first matchup between these two teams when Vucevic played so well.Without Baynes, Al Horford will likely see the lion’s share of defensive possessions against Vucevic. Daniel Theis and Robert Williams are almost certain to see time against Orlando’s top scorer as well.Williams, in particular, may have earned a greater opportunity tonight after his performance Thursday night in Miami. The big man checked in for the first time during the third quarter of that game and helped Boston trim a 26-point deficit all the way down to eight during that period. After the game, Stevens lauded Williams’ ability to affect shots in the paint with the presence of his bouncy and lanky body.Tonight will be a whole different animal than Thursday night, however. There is no big man on Miami’s roster who compares to the offensive package which Vucevic brings to the table. The Celtics are well aware of that fact after watching Vucevic and his frontline teammates lead the Magic to a win up in Boston earlier this season.
NEW YORK – Tonight’s matchup between the Celtics and the Nets will look very different – on both sides of the ball – than it did one week ago.This time around, Brooklyn is healthy, and Boston is not.The opposite was the case one week ago, on Jan. 7 at TD Garden, when a fully-loaded Celtics squad cruised to a 116-95 win over the injury-riddled Nets. Boston led by as many as 24 points during that contest, and none of its starters were needed for more than 28 minutes of service.That result was not surprising considering that the Nets were missing two key players that night in Joe Harris and DeMarre Carroll, who rank third and fifth on the team in scoring, respectively. Both of those players will be available for tonight’s game.Harris enters the contest averaging 13.4 points per game and is shooting at a blistering 48.3 percent clip from downtown on the season. That percentage has been maintained while Harris is attempting an average of 5.0 shots from 3-point range per game, which is quite an impressive feat.Carroll, meanwhile, carries averages of 10.6 points and 4.8 rebounds per game into the matchup. What may make an even greater impact tonight, however, is his defense.Carroll has built a reputation as a versatile defender who can handle multiple positions on the court. That ability plays right into one of Brooklyn’s strengths, according to Brad Stevens.“I think they have a lot of versatility defensively,” Stevens said at Monday morning’s shootaround. “I think that they’re superbly coached, and they all know what they do, and they do it every single night.”Meanwhile, on Boston’s side of the ball, the C’s are likely to be missing a key cog to their defensive versatility tonight. Marcus Smart did not attend shootaround after he woke up Monday morning feeling ill. Stevens said that he doubts Smart will be able to recover in time for tonight’s game.Additionally, the Celtics will be missing their All-Star point guard during tonight’s contest. Kyrie Irving will miss his fifth game of the season after he suffered a right quad contusion Saturday night. Irving said that he suffered the injury, which caused a knot to build up in his leg, after he came down awkwardly on a continuation play in Orlando. Irving said the injury “could have been bad,” and added that he will be ready to go Wednesday night against Toronto.However, his absence, combined with that of Smart, leaves two holes in Boston’s starting lineup tonight. Irving is Boston’s leading scorer and assist man, and the team has yet to play game this season without their star perimeter defender, Smart. Their absences will require multiple Celtics to step up and deliver strong performances against the Nets.Terry Rozier is almost certain to step into the starting lineup in place of Irving. Rozier has played some of his best ball of the season when he has stepped into Irving’s starting shoes. In four games as a starter, the fourth-year point guard has averaged 14.0 points, 5.3 rebounds, 5.3 assists and 2.0 steals per game.The player who will step into the other open slot in the starting lineup isn’t quite as automatic. Stevens has multiple options, including Jaylen Brown, Gordon Hayward and Semi Ojeleye. Brown was chosen as the starter the last time Boston was missing two starters, as Stevens seemed to want to keep Hayward in his role as a playmaker off the bench.No matter who steps into the starting lineup in Smart’s place, and whoever bumps up in the rotation as a result of Smart’s and Irving’s absences, Stevens expects them to rise to the occasion.“One of the things I think about our team is that guys that are getting new opportunity or more opportunity will be ready,” the coach stated. “That’s one of the benefits of having a group like this. You always want everybody available, but our other guys will be ready.”We’ll find out at 7:30 p.m. tonight if that comment is accurate, while these two teams exchange roles on the health front compared to their meeting a week ago.
DENVER – It’s no secret that the young trio of Gary Harris, Nikola Jokic and Jamal Murray, who are all 24 years old or younger, has fueled Denver’s surprising 8-1 start to the season. However, according to the Celtics, another member of the Nuggets deserves credit for Denver’s rapid rise.Multiple Celtics believe that Paul Millsap has played an integral role in the development of Harris, Jokic and Murray. Two members of Boston’s team, Al Horford and Gordon Hayward, have first-hand knowledge of how important Millsap’s presence can be to a team, and especially to a team’s young players.Horford and Millsap were teammates in Atlanta for three seasons, one of which included 60 wins. Hayward, meanwhile, spent his first three seasons in the league as a teammate of Millsap. Horford spoke Monday morning about how he came to appreciate the way Millsap went about his business, and how Millsap’s work ethic and leadership are affecting the young Nuggets in a big way.“I think that people probably don’t talk about him enough and the impact that he makes in that locker room and what he does for that group,” Horford said ahead of Millsap before Boston’s shootaround in Denver. “I think that’s the difference. This year they’re doing great, and yeah, their guys have improved, but Paul is healthy here, and he’s a reason why they’ve gotten off to a good start.”Millsap was not healthy a season ago, as he was limited to only 38 games during his first campaign with the Nuggets. As a result, Denver’s young players missed out on watching the 13-year veteran prepare throughout an 82-game season. Now Millsap’s teammates have an opportunity to see and learn from his work ethic each and every day.Such leadership cannot be overstated. Every team that aspires for success, especially one as young as the Nuggets, who are the third-youngest team in the league by average age, needs quality veteran leaders.Millsap is exactly that for Denver, just as Horford has been for Boston for the last two-plus seasons. That type of leadership pushes players in the right direction, as both Marcus Smart and Horford explained Monday morning. “Coming in and not really knowing what to expect, and not knowing how things really work, for those vets to come in and really put us under their wings and show us the ropes, it really helped a lot,” Smart said as he looked back to his first few seasons in the league. “You need vets like that. You need guys that come in and are good culture guys and locker room guys and care about the development of the team and not just themselves.”Smart said that Brandon Bass, Gerald Wallace, Jameer Nelson and Rajon Rondo played significant roles in mentoring him and teaching him how to go about his day-to-day work. Horford, meanwhile, mentioned the likes of Mike Bibby, Joe Johnson and Zaza Pachulia in that regard. He went on to explain how those players impacted him while he was a young player.“I think it was just the way that they carried themselves, and then the attention to detail in the game,” said Horford. “I think that the sooner that you pick that up as a young player, the better off you’ll be, because you can have all the skill and talent in the world and that can get you by, but if you’re able to pick up those subtleties and those little things, I think that will make you a very special player.”Therein lies the difference for the Denver Nuggets in the eyes of multiple Celtics. Harris, Jokic and Murray have picked those subtleties up from Millsap, and now they’ve turned the Nuggets into one of the most feared teams in the NBA. It’s no coincidence.So while most of the attention regarding Denver’s impressive start to the season revolves around its talented trio, don’t overlook that wily veteran named Millsap. Horford and the Celtics know what type of impact he has made on the Nuggets. They just want to bring it to a stop for one night tonight when these two powers meet at the Pepsi Center.
PHOENIX – Someone stirred the pot, but it wasn’t Terry Rozier.Rumors began swirling Wednesday that Rozier is unhappy with his reserve role with the Boston Celtics. But as quickly as those rumprs began to swirl, they were just as swiftly blown away by both Rozier and the C’s.“I woke up to the news just like y’all woke up to the news,” Rozier authentically stated at Thursday morning’s shootaround, ahead of Boston’s matchup with the Phoenix Suns. “I don’t know where it came from. I’m happy to be in this position I’m at, playing on a team that’s mentioned to have a chance to be in the championship. So I’m not worried about what’s being said.”Danny Ainge also squashed the rumors while speaking Thursday morning on 98.5 The Sports Hub’s Toucher and Rich show.“I talk to Terry quite a bit, and I haven’t heard any of those things,” Ainge said on the show. “So I don’t know how reliable those things, those sources or rumors, are. Terry hasn’t shared any of those things with me and I think he would if he were feeling that way.”Ainge also mentioned that the Celtics and Rozier and his camp pre-emptively spoke this summer about the role Rozier would have on the team with the return of All-Star Kyrie Irving. Rozier is averaging 22.7 minutes per game this season, after averaging 36.6 per game last postseason while playing in Irving’s place and helping to lead Boston to the doorstep of the NBA Finals.Rozier was and is well aware of his role on this team. He understands that he is a reserve. That may not be his preferred role, but that doesn’t mean he’s grumbling about it or seeking to play elsewhere.“I go from starting in the Playoffs and then to coming off the bench. I’m pretty sure it’s not easy for nobody,” he stated. “And I’m not complaining, and if you know me, I’ve never been the one to complain about (playing time). I would never go to the media or bring out the ‘unhappy’ thing. I would never do that.”He continued, “People that know me know I wouldn’t do that. I’ve never been a selfish type of person, type of player. You can tell the way I play; I’m all about team, ‘we,’ and everything. Everything will be all right. It’s not as bad as people make it sound.”Brad Stevens made similar comments Thursday morning regarding Rozier’s attitude.“Terry’s been nothing but a great teammate here, and nothing but a great guy here,” said the coach. “He’s never said a word to me.”Stevens also spoke about Rozier’s limited playing time. He said that as many as nine players on Boston’s roster are going to feel frustrations throughout this season with regard to the time they spend on the court, simply because the team is so loaded with talent. Stevens sees that as a good thing, rather than a bad thing, and in particular with Rozier.“You wouldn’t expect anyone that’s as ambitious or as accomplished as him to feel any differently than that,” Stevens said.The internal discussion regarding Rozier is focused far more on his actual play than it is his playing time. The point guard said that Stevens approached him after Tuesday’s practice to talk about how he can become more effective in his reserve role.“He came up to me and (said), ‘It’s not good to press and play,’” Rozier revealed. “I can’t press myself and play.“I felt like I was doing that a little bit … If I’m pressing, then it’ll be tough to play, so it made sense,” he said. “Free mind, and everything is going good.”Stevens later gave more insight on the conversation.“Sometimes when you’re playing less, you figure the best way to [make an impact] is to be ultra-aggressive right out of the gate instead of letting the game and the easy play come to you,” said Stevens. “That’s something that’s hard to adjust to, and I think anybody would be struggling to adjust to. So not surprised at all that that’s part of it. And (it’s) also one of the reasons why not I’m not gonna stop playing him the way he’s playing. He’ll get through this and he’ll be great because of who he is.”That right there is the key to this storyline. Rozier, Stevens, Ainge and the Celtics know that Rozier’s character is top-notch. He has never and will never make a peep about his playing time.He’s more concerned with figuring out how to impact games in his new role and help this Celtics team compete for a championship.
BOSTON – The Toronto Raptors, in the midst of their first losing skid of the season, will visit TD Garden Friday night, looking to get back on track against their Atlantic Division rival Boston Celtics.Toronto hit a road bump following its league-best 12-1 start, dropping its last two games at home, including a frustrating, 106-104 loss to Pistons at the buzzer Wednesday night after leading by as many as 19 points.“We’ve made a lot of mistakes,” starting forward Pascal Siakam said before Friday morning’s shootaround at TD Garden. “Obviously, last game we had a big lead and let them come back in the game, and in the end of the game we had a lot of miscommunications and stuff like that. So, we’ve just gotta tighten up a little bit and just play as a team like we always do.”Specifically, the Raptors say they need to tighten up their defense after being outscored 29-16 during the fourth quarter Wednesday night. “Defense should always be the No. 1 priority for us,” said veteran big man Serge Ibaka, “because some nights you may not make shots. Defense is going to help you win some of those close games. So, last night was last night, but we’ve got to learn from that and move on to tonight.”The Raptors, in recent times, have done an excellent job of moving on from tough losses. They haven’t had a losing streak longer than two games since the 2016-17 season, and that’s thanks to their collective mental ability to get back up after being struck down.“We have to understand, OK, we lost two games at home, so this is like a wake-up call,” said Ibaka. “Sometimes you can have a wake-up call in the morning and you say, ‘No, I want to stay in bed for five more minutes.’ Or you say, ‘You know what, I’m going to get up and go to work.’ So, I feel like we have that mentality, like when we lose two games in a row like that, we have the mentality to wake up and do better.” The Celtics recently woke up from a losing skid of their own, rebounding from a 1-4 road trip with a 111-82 win over the Chicago Bulls Wednesday night. They will look to carry that momentum into Friday night’s matchup against the Raptors, with the hope of making a statement on national television.Game 1 of the season series didn’t fall in Boston’s favor, as it dropped a 113-101 contest at Scotiabank Arena. However, that game was only the second of the campaign for the C’s, so they had not yet begun to discover a sense of identity. “Early in the season when we played them in Toronto, it wasn’t who we are now or who we’re trying to grow into,” Kyrie Irving said leading into Friday’s game. “I think that it will be a great test for us. They have a lot of great players as we all well know, so we’re up for the challenge.”As will be the Raptors, who aim to avoid their first three-game losing spell in two seasons when they hit the TD Garden court Friday night.

BOSTON – Brad Stevens gazed intently across the Celtics’ locker room Thursday evening, his eyes locked on a flat-screen TV that was broadcasting the NBA Draft.Boston’s head coach, sitting among roughly two dozen of his equally-eager colleagues, watched as NBA commissioner Adam Silver strode toward a podium stationed 215 miles away at the Draft’s host site in Brooklyn. In his hand, Silver held a card. It contained the name of the No. 3 overall pick – the first, and most substantial, selection that the Celtics would be making Thursday night.The commissioner stepped up to the podium’s microphone, glanced out at the Barclays Center audience, compiled of draft hopefuls, fans and media members, and announced, “With the third pick in the 2017 NBA Draft, the Boston Celtics select… Jayson Tatum, from Duke University.”Back inside the core of TD Garden, Stevens rose from his seat and slowly walked toward the TV as ESPN began displaying Tatum’s college highlights, all of which the coach had surely seen countless times before. Stevens eventually stopped less than four feet from the enormous screen – close enough so that one could watch the reflection of Tatum’s reel in the whites of his eyes  – and smiled in admiration at his newest pupil.For several moments, Stevens did not say a word. He had completely cut himself off from the buzzing conversations that were taking place behind him as he stood grinning with his lips slightly ajar, occasionally nodding with approval. Finally, Stevens blinked out of his trance as the reel faded out.“OK,” he stated to no one in particular. “Here we go.”Stevens, along with president of basketball operations Danny Ainge and the rest of the Celtics basketball ops staff, have become enamored by Tatum’s craft over the last several months. Clearly, observing the abilities of the talented wing has yet to get old.“He’s a really skilled player, a really talented scorer,” Stevens later told the media. “He’s a great kid, has great work ethic. We’re excited to have him aboard.”Later in the Draft, the Celtics welcomed aboard Southern Methodist forward Semi Ojeleye (37th overall), Arizona guard Kadeem Allen (53rd overall) and Cal-Berkeley guard Jabari Bird (56th overall).Tatum, at No. 3, of course was the premier haul of the draft for Boston. The 6-foot-8, 205-pound St. Louis native was the star of the Duke men’s basketball this past winter and spring. During his lone collegiate season, he averaged 16.8 points, 7.3 rebounds, 2.1 assists, 1.3 steals and 1.1 blocks per game, all while leading the Blue Devils to a No. 2 seed in the NCAA Tournament.Prior to his college days, Tatum was regarded as one of the top high school players in the nation. He earned Gatorade National Player of the Year honors during his senior season at Chaminade College Prep in Creve Coeur, Missouri after averaging 29.6 PPG and 9.1 RPG, all while guiding his team to a Class 5A state title.The previous three GNPOY winners – Ben Simmons, Karl-Anthony Towns and Andrew Wiggins – all ended up being selected No. 1 overall in their respective NBA Draft classes. Tatum likely would have continued that trend had it not been for a blockbuster trade that occurred three days ahead of the Draft.The Celtics originally owned the No. 1 overall pick (acquired from Brooklyn in 2013), but they were confident that Tatum would be available at No. 3, so they decided to trade down. On Monday, Boston dealt the No. 1 pick to Philadelphia in exchange for the No. 3 pick. The C’s will also receive either the Lakers’ 2018 first-round pick (if it falls between 2 and 5) or the Kings’ 2019 first-round pick, both of which Philadelphia had previously acquired via trades.“We would have picked [Tatum] with the first pick,” Ainge confirmed shortly after midnight, while the Draft was near the tail end of the second round. “We like his size and length, his rebounding, his shooting, his intelligence, his character. There’s a lot to like about Jayson. He’s going to be a terrific player.”Above all, Tatum is incredibly versatile. That quality is what excites Stevens more than any other. “A couple years ago, I talked about how we were thin on guys that could play a number of different positions, when you talk about 2-3-4,” said Stevens. “Now we’ve got a lot of position-less players that can dribble, pass, and shoot.”Moments after being drafted, Tatum expressed how anxious he is to join the rest of Boston’s versatile core, which is fresh off of a trip to the Eastern Conference Finals.“I’m extremely excited to be joining such a great, tremendous franchise like the Celtics,” Tatum said in an interview with CSNNE. “They’re a great team, they were the No. 1 seed in the East last year, and I just think with so many great veterans and great players like Isaiah Thomas and Al Horford, [Jae] Crowder, [Avery] Bradley, there’s so much I can learn from those guys.”At just 19 years old, Tatum still has a lot of growth ahead of him. That being said, he has prodigious potential and very well could be a major link in Boston’s pursuit of Banner 18.Perhaps that’s what Stevens was envisioning as he stood by the flat-screen TV Thursday night, watching Tatum’s awe-inspiring highlight reel.Now, all that’s left to do is wait and see how it all plays out. In the words of Stevens, “Here we go.”
BOSTON – Aron Baynes made an outstanding impression on the Boston Celtics and its fanbase during his first season with the organization, providing grittiness, veteran leadership, and a selfless, team-first attitude each day he showed up to work.For those contributions, the Australian big man was rewarded by the team Friday with a brand-new contract.In celebration of the signing, we’re taking a look back at some of Baynes’ best performances from his inaugural season in green and white. Here are his top five.The Celtics typically relied on Baynes to produce in a defensive capacity this season, but when the time called for it, he could also deliver on the offensive end. A prime example of that occurred Nov. 8 when a shorthanded version of the C’s took on the Los Angeles Lakers at TD Garden.Al Horford had been ruled out ahead of the game due to a concussion and Jayson Tatum was lost nine minutes into action with an ankle injury, so the Celtics needed an extra source of offensive energy to make up for those absences.Baynes took on the responsibility by producing a career-high-tying 21 points on 8-of-12 shooting to help vault Boston past the Lakers, 107-96. Baynes’ game-high point total was accompanied by eight rebounds and three assists over the course of 23 minutes of play.The early-season outpour was an offensive coming out party for Baynes, who proved to Celtics Nation that he could be far more than just a defensive force if the opportunity called for it.There’s always added joy in performing well against one’s former team, especially when it involves outplaying an old teammate and friend.Baynes had the pleasure of accomplishing both feats during his first trip back to Detroit on Dec. 10, when he contained All-Star center Andre Drummond to a dismal offensive performance, while helping to lead Boston’s defense to one of its greatest efforts of the season.Drummond had a history of tearing up Boston’s defense, boasting an average of 17.8 points per game against the C’s in 19 career games – his highest scoring mark against any opponent. The first matchup of the season on Nov. 27 didn’t buck the trend, as he tallied 26 points to go along with 22 rebounds, six assists and four steals. That game, however, only featured 13 minutes of Baynes off the bench.This time around, the Celtics opted to start Baynes and gave him more than twice as many minutes to work with. The result? Just six points for Drummond on a season-low 1-of-5 effort from the field and a 91-81 win for the C’s.Baynes scored six points of his own on 3-of-6 shooting and also pulled down a then-season-high 13 rebounds. His defense was suffocating, as he honed in on Drummond to shut off the lob play that was so effective during the previous meeting.The friendly history between two former teammates, as well as the homecoming environment, made the result all the more sweeter for Baynes.Baynes was responsible for doing most of the dirty work in the paint for the Celtics this season, and that often involved protecting the rim and banging bodies against elite post players.On Feb. 28, Baynes was assigned to cover the greatest rebounder of this generation in Dwight Howard, and per usual the Celtics big man delivered.Baynes helped to limit the six-time rebounding champion to three total boards, including just one on the defensive end, en route to a 134-106 beatdown of the Charlotte Hornets. It marked just the second time in Howard’s career that he was held to three or fewer rebounds while playing at least 25 minutes.Baynes, meanwhile, corralled a game-high 10 rebounds and contributed to the offensive explosion with 12 points on 6-of-7 shooting during 22 minutes of play.Baynes spent hours and hours behind closed doors this season working to add a 3-point shot to his game. Finally, during Game 76 of the regular season, his diligence paid off.Boston’s starting center opened up the March 31 matchup against the Toronto Raptors by knocking down five jump shots – each at least 14 feet from the basket – during the first quarter alone. Two of those makes came from long distance, where he had previously shot just 1-of-19 over the course of his career.The 2-for-2 effort from beyond the arc helped kick-start Baynes’ sharpshooting confidence at the most important time of the season. He took his new-found skill into the Playoffs where he shot 11-of-23 from deep for a team-leading clip of 47.8 percent.Now, Baynes is considered to be a legitimate 3-point threat, all thanks to the confidence he discovered beyond the arc toward the tail-end of the season.The Celtics entered their regular season finale against Brooklyn having already locked up the second seed in the Playoffs. But that didn’t make it a meaningless game – at least not to Baynes.With five of his core teammates resting up that night, Baynes took it upon himself to lead the young group of Celtics that took the court, and he stepped up to deliver the best performance of his career.Baynes erupted for a career-high 26 points on 12-of-23 shooting, all while corralling a season-high 14 rebounds to help guide Boston to a 110-97 win. He did all of that during just 20 minutes of play, becoming the first NBA player in more than 50 years to log at least 25 points and 14 rebounds while playing 20 minutes or fewer. He also became the first Celtics center to tally at least 25 points and 14 boards in a game since Kevin Garnett on Dec. 3, 2008.Baynes’ gritty, under-the-radar style of play rarely landed him in the spotlight during the previous 81 games, but it was the perfect way for the hard-working big man to cap off his season.“He’s done whatever we’ve needed to win, every single game this year,” C’s coach Brad Stevens said after the game. “He’s just a pro’s pro. He shows up every night. He shows up to play. He’s appreciative of the opportunity to play in the NBA, and to do this for a living, and he’s had a great impact on our team.” 

BOSTON – Gerald Green – quite fittingly – is back in green.The Boston Celtics announced Wednesday night that they have signed Green to a free-agent contract.  Terms of the deal were not disclosed.Boston chose Green with the 18th overall pick in the 2005 NBA Draft and the swingman spent his first two NBA seasons with the club.  He was then dealt to Minnesota on July 31, 2007 as part of the package that landed Kevin Garnett in Boston.Green is entering his 10th season in the league.  He owns career averages of 10.0 points and 2.5 rebounds per game and has shot 36.1 percent from long range.Last season, as a member of the Miami Heat, Green posted averages of 8.9 points and 2.4 rebounds per game.  Prior to his one-year run with Miami, Green had averaged double-figures in the scoring column during three of his previous four campaigns, including a career-high average of 15.8 PPG during 2013-14 with the Phoenix Suns.Green fits right into head coach Brad Stevens’ mantra of positionless basketball.  As a long, 6-foot-7 shooter with extreme athleticism, he can and will spend time at multiple positions.Under Stevens’ system, Green is a fit at the “swing” and “wing” positions.  He will help by scoring off the bounce, by spreading the floor, and by rising off the floor for above-the-rim finishes.Although Green is not regarded as a high-level defender, he is serviceable at that end and is likely to improve under the guidance of Stevens and his coaching staff.It will be a full-circle story if Green is able to make an impact on next season’s Celtics team.  He was drafted by Danny Ainge 11 years ago, but his career has been a rollercoaster ever since.Green, now 30 years old, entered the league as a 19-year-old super-athlete.  He showed glimpses of stardom during his first two seasons with the C’s, including winning the 2007 Slam Dunk contest, and that’s why Minnesota wanted him included in Boston’s package for Garnett.However, after a short stay with the Timberwolves that included only 29 games played, he was traded to the Rockets and then waived shortly thereafter, on March 8, 2008.  Green signed with Dallas during the offseason, played 39 games with the Mavs, and then was out of the league – for nearly three full years.For those who had seen Green’s highlight dunks and flashes of star potential, it was shocking to know that the then-23-year-old, with loads of ability, was unable to find a job in the NBA.  That, however, was the bitter truth.Green was forced to play two seasons overseas, in Russia (for two teams) and China, and one in the D-League, before finally getting another shot at the NBA in February of 2012.  But even then, his future was in doubt.The New Jersey Nets went out on a limb and signed Green to a 10-day contract – the type of contract that is most typically given to D-Leaguers as stopgaps for teams – on Feb. 27, 2012.  Green showed enough promise, commitment and growth to garner a second 10-day contract.Shortly thereafter, he began to make an impact in New Jersey.  He scored 26 points in 23 minutes on March 10, 2012, during just his seventh game with the Nets.  Four days later, he scored 26 points yet again.  Green went on to score at least 15 points during 11 of his 31 games with New Jersey.Green’s stretch with the Nets showed those around the league that he was ready to contribute full-time at the NBA level.  He went on to sign a three-year, $10 million deal with Indiana during the 2012 offseason.Green played well off of the bench for Indiana during 2012-13, scoring 7.0 PPG in 18 MPG, and was traded to Phoenix the following summer.  The swingman went on to average 15.8 PPG and 11.9 PPG, respectively, during his two seasons with the Suns.Now, after a one-year stop in Miami, Green is back where it all started more than 11 years ago.His impact was quite minimal during his first stop in Boston, but a lot has changed since then.  Green has matured, both as a person and as a player, and has proven that he can be a key rotational player.Now he has a chance to make an impact on the highly-regarded Celtics during his second stint in green.
BOSTON – Five months after suffering a season-ending meniscus injury, Daniel Theis is nearly back to playing full-scale basketball.And the process of getting to this point has taught him an unexpected new skill.Theis, who tore his left meniscus during a March 11 matchup with the Indiana Pacers at TD Garden, has been inching his way back into basketball activities during recent weeks. He says that he has made rapid improvements during the early parts of August.“Since I’ve been back (from Germany) – it’s almost two weeks now – I’ve been getting step-by-step progress and doing more,” he told Celtics.com during an exclusive interview at Boston’s new practice facility. “I’ve been doing jump shots, sprints, cutting, change of direction, jumping, so more basketball-like. Over the summer it was more preparing the knee, doing a lot of exercise, lifting.”Theis said his most recent progress has finally brought the light at the end of his rehabilitation tunnel into vision.“I’m just happy because now I see the goal to being back on the court and playing 5-on-5,” he said. “Now it’s just day-by-day, and I progress every day and get new stuff to do. From Monday, I was just running ‘S-curves.’ Today, I was hard-cutting and sprinting.”The big man, who averaged 12.7 points, 10.5 rebounds and 1.8 blocks per 36 minutes during his rookie season, said that he’s “going to be 100 percent” for the start of training camp, which arrives Sept. 25, but there is no set date for his return to live action.There were high levels of enthusiasm and excitement in Theis’ voice as he spoke about approaching the finish line of his rehabilitation. To the contrary, those levels were at ground level just a few months ago as he struggled through the low points of the first in-season injury of his basketball career.Theis was injured just as Boston was beginning to make its final push toward the Playoffs, and an eventual push toward a berth into the NBA Finals. He was planning to be a key part of all of that, and then, in an instant, he wasn’t. That dart from one end of the spectrum to the other took a significant toll on his psyche.“I never missed a single game of the season,” he said, speaking of his career. “So this time, we as a team and I worked so hard to get to the Playoffs, and then in mid-March when I got hurt, it hurt not just my knee, it hurt me. I can’t be on the court anymore and fight with the team.”As he coped with that realization, he also came face-to-face with another harsh reality: that this rehabilitation would be dreadfully monotonous and lengthy.“At the beginning, when I got hurt, I tried to come back as quick as I can, and the docs and trainers just told me that I need to be patient and I need to take my time and it needs time to heal,” he recalled. “You can’t rush this process.”Due to the timing of the injury, that process would go on to engulf his entire offseason.“Normally it’s like you take one, two, maybe three weeks off and get away from basketball and get away from sports a little bit,” Theis said of a standard offseason. “This summer was just working out basically every day. I had one or two days off, but I knew I needed to work out just to be back, and so my knee was prepared and ready when I came back here (to Boston) to process the new stuff.”As he nears the completion of his rehab, and with all but five weeks of the offseason in the rearview mirror, Theis now looks back on the process and realizes that it taught him a valuable life-lesson.“I’ve never been a patient guy,” he said with a laugh. “If I hear something, I want to do it right away. It’s been five months, and that changed. I learned how to be patient and go step-by-step, day-by-day.“Over the course of the injury and over the summer, I also got more patient at home, and more calm, and I just learned how to do this.”At this point, there isn’t much of ‘this’ left for Theis to endure. He’s inching closer to full basketball activity, and soon enough, he’ll return to live action.When he does, he’ll be able to take solace in the fact that he’s added a newfound skill during his lengthy recovery process. He has added patience to his repertoire – though he hopes to never need to call on it again when it comes to injuries.
BOSTON – The Boston Celtics are set to tip off the 2018-19 Season with two rookies on their roster. First-round draft pick Robert Williams will be fighting his way for some frontcourt action, while international journeyman Brad Wanamaker will be looking to break out in the backcourt.We've dug up five fun facts on the pair of first-year Celts, so brush up on your team trivia below as they prepare to make their respective marks in the NBA.Wanamaker was signed by the Celtics this summer after spending his previous seven seasons playing overseas and in the NBA G League (formerly the D-League). Here are his five facts:The Celtics selected Williams out of Texas A&M University with the No. 27 overall pick in the 2018 NBA Draft. Here are his five facts:
ANDOVER, Mass. – Aron Baynes had the opportunity this summer to explore NBA free agency and possibly seek out an expanded role. However, there was no doubt in his mind that he wanted to return to Boston for another season with the Celtics.The 6-foot-10 Aussie center has fallen in love with every aspect of Boston over the past year, from its culture to its competitive sports environment. The latter is what enticed Baynes to join the Celtics last summer, and his appetite for winning is why he was set on sticking around for another go.“I wanted to come to a contender,” Baynes said Tuesday afternoon during an Arbella Home Court Makeover unveiling in Andover, Massachusetts. “I always knew that Boston was going to be able to contend and it was definitely a big part of my decision coming here and trying to fit into the system, trying to help as much as I could.”Baynes ended up having a larger role than anyone expected last season due to a number of significant injuries to his teammates. He started 67 regular season games and averaged 6.0 points and 5.4 rebounds per game over 18.3 minutes per contest. The 31-year-old big man also owned the best defensive rating in the league (97.0) among players who played at least half of the season.Baynes’ role will likely decline somewhat this season now that everyone is back and healthy, but he’s completely content with any responsibility the Celtics put on his plate. He may have a smaller serving of playing time in Boston than he would have elsewhere, but he knows that the organization cherishes the unique contributions he brings to the team.“It’s one of those things where I enjoy and want to be in a place where they want me as well,” said Baynes, who spent the entire summer in Boston. “And that’s definitely something that I’ve felt from the front office and everyone involved.”Baynes has especially felt the love from Brad Stevens and the Celtics coaching staff. The faith that Stevens had in Baynes from Day 1 last season helped build the big man’s confidence, which allowed him to expand his game as both a shooter and a defender.Baynes says that suiting up for a coach who trusts him and utilizes his strengths was also a major factor in his decision to return.“It’s great playing for a guy like Brad,” said Baynes. “He really puts the onus on us to become better shooters of the game … You've seen the development of the young guys and also the more veteran guys are still learning. He’s such a great teacher.”Stevens had a lot of teaching to do last season with 11 new faces on the roster, but this season should be more about fine-tuning. There was hardly any roster turnover this summer, so the continuity should be in Boston’s favor.“Last year at this time we were learning peoples’ names; this year we can get into the finer points of the systems that we’re learning,” said Baynes. “We’ve still got a bit to learn and a way to go in incorporating the healthy guys back into it, but it’s definitely exciting that we’re starting at this base level compared to where we were last season.”Even with last season's injuries and lack of familiarity, the Celtics were still able to advance all the way to Game 7 of the Eastern Conference Finals. Being so close to making it to the championship round, with still much room for team improvement, left Baynes yearning for more. “It’s always nice to be able to come back and be with a team where you’ve left something that you feel is unfinished,” said Baynes. “There is an opportunity to do a lot. It could be a special one, so that’s what we’re working toward right now.”

NEW YORK – The most talented amateur basketball players in the world will have their dreams come true Thursday night when they’re selected in the 2014 NBA Draft.  If many of them have it their way, their name will be called by the Boston Celtics.As a requirement for accepting an invite to sit in the Green Room at Thursday’s Draft, 20 of the top prospects met with the media Wednesday afternoon to discuss their expectations for tomorrow night.  At least a quarter of those players singled out the Celtics in one way or another during their media availability.One of those players is Noah Vonleh, who grew up in nearby Haverhill, Mass.  He said that he’s been receiving non-stop text messages from friends and family about the prospect of landing with the C’s.“Everybody’s texting me,” he said with a smile, clearly enamored by the possibility of playing for his hometown team.  “They’re like, ‘Bro, I hope you come to Boston,’ and this and that.  ‘It would be crazy!  You’re [playing] for the hometown!  I’ll go to all the games!’”Vonleh is one of several prospects who either grew up in or played high school ball in the New England area.  Those players obviously would love to come back to their old stomping grounds and put together a great career in green and white.  But you don’t need to be a New England product to want to play in Boston.  That much is very clear.Every prospect who worked out for the Celtics saw first-hand that Boston’s tradition is second to none.  Seventeen banners hang above the practice court.  Those things are hard to miss, and they’re quite attractive to players who want to win.“They expect championships,” said Julius Randle.  “They have so many championships in their past and that’s what they expect.”With that in mind, Randle said, “It would be a joy to play for the Celtics.”Randle also singled out Brad Stevens as a reason why he’d love to wind up in Boston.  Stevens has drawn rave reviews from nearly every prospect who has worked out for the team.  Randle and Doug McDermott lauded him yet again on Wednesday.  McDermott recounted the atmosphere of his workout with the Celtics and attributed the good vibes to Stevens.“It was great to have Brad Stevens run the whole workout.  It kind of felt like a college practice, “ said McDermott, who was the consensus National Player of the Year this past season.  “It was definitely probably the most unique [workout], just because that guy has a crazy IQ for the game and he drew up sets for us to run to see how quickly we could adjust to a play call at the end of the game.  I definitely enjoyed that.”It seems that the same can be said for every other prospect who made their way through the Celtics practice facility over the past several weeks.  The Celtics, from Stevens to Danny Ainge to the franchise’s tradition, have been praised by the Draft’s top prospects.  It’s clear to anyone who talks to these guys that they would all love to put a fresh Celtics cap on tomorrow night.
Click to reveal quotes following the Celtics' selection of Robert Williams with the 27th overall pick in the 2018 NBA Draft.
