The Milwaukee Bucks have acquired a future second-round draft pick, cash and guard Jodie Meeks from the Washington Wizards in exchange for a future second-round draft pick.Meeks, 31, averaged 6.3 points and 1.6 rebounds in 77 games last season for Washington. A nine-year NBA veteran, Meeks has averaged 9.3 points, 2.1 rebounds and 1.1 assists in 531 games. Drafted by Milwaukee in the second-round (41st overall) of the 2009 NBA Draft, he has played for six NBA teams including the Bucks, 76ers, Lakers, Pistons, Magic and Wizards.The Bucks roster stands at 18 players with Meeks beginning the season on the NBA’s Suspended List.

The Milwaukee Bucks have assigned guard Sterling Brown to the Wisconsin Herd of the NBA G League.Brown has averaged 1.7 points in three games for the Bucks this season.  He is the younger brother of Shannon Brown who signed a contract with the Herd earlier today.
The Milwaukee Bucks have exercised the fourth-year contract option on forward Thon Maker and third-year contract option on forward D.J. Wilson.The 10th overall pick in the 2016 NBA Draft, Maker, 21, is averaging 6.3 points and 4.7 rebounds over three games this season. In his first two seasons with the Bucks, Maker averaged 4.4 points and 2.6 rebounds per game.                                  Wilson, 22, was the 17th overall selection in the 2017 NBA Draft. He appeared in 22 games for the Bucks in his rookie campaign and averaged 1.0 point and 0.5 rebounds. In 11 games for the Wisconsin Herd, the G League affiliate of the Bucks, Wilson averaged 15.9 points, 5.5 rebounds and 2.4 assists last season.Under the terms of the NBA’s current collective bargaining agreement, the first two years of a first round draft pick’s contract are guaranteed, while the third and fourth year of the contract are the team’s option.
The Milwaukee Bucks and the Froedtert & the Medical College of Wisconsin health network will welcome every baby born at its hospitals in 2019 with a keepsake “Welcome to the Family!” receiving blanket.Beginning on Jan. 1, the blankets will be distributed to every newborn at Froedtert & MCW Froedtert Hospital in Milwaukee, Community Memorial Hospital in Menomonee Falls, St. Joseph’s Hospital in West Bend and St. Catherine’s Medical Center in Pleasant Prairie throughout the year. “We’re always thrilled to welcome new Bucks fans to the world and we’re pleased to give newborns across Froedtert’s health network a special keepsake blanket that they’ll cherish for years to come,” said Bucks and Fiserv Forum President Peter Feigin.“Parenting, like basketball, is a team sport. So we’re grateful to the Milwaukee Bucks for extending their generosity to our very littlest patients to make sure they leave Froedtert & MCW birth centers with a cozy keepsake,” said Froedtert Health president and CEO Cathy Jacobson.
The abuse and intimidation that Sterling experienced at the hands of Milwaukee Police was shameful and inexcusable. Sterling has our full support as he shares his story and takes action to provide accountability.Unfortunately, this isn't an isolated case. It shouldn’t require an incident involving a professional athlete to draw attention to the fact that vulnerable people in our communities have experienced similar, and even worse, treatment. We are grateful for the service of many good police officers that courageously protect us, our fans and our city, but racial biases and abuses of power must not be ignored. There needs to be more accountability.  The Milwaukee Police Department and local officials have acknowledged the challenges they are working to address, and we urge them to enact higher standards and more direct accountability. We all want to be able to trust each and every officer serving to protect us.   Incidents like this remind us of the injustices that persist.  As an organization, we will support Sterling and build on our work with local leaders and organizations to foster safe neighborhoods and better our community. 
The Milwaukee Bucks have recalled forward D.J. Wilson from the Wisconsin Herd of the NBA G League. In two games while on assignment with the Herd, Wilson averaged 17.5 points, 8.5 rebounds, 3.5 assists and 2.0 steals per game while shooting 46.4 percent from the field and 50.0 percent from beyond the arc. In a win over the Maine Red Claws last night, Wilson tallied 21 points (8-16 FG, 3-6 3FG) and hauled in a game-high 11 rebounds with six assists, two steals and two blocks.In six games (all starts) with the Herd this season, Wilson is averaging 13.7 points on 53.3 percent shooting from the field and 46.4 percent shooting from 3-point range in addition to 5.0 rebounds, 1.8 assists and 1.5 steals per contest.
“We appreciate all of Mirza’s contributions to the Bucks organization and our community. We wish him a lifetime of good health with his family.”In 10 games this season, Teletovic averaged 7.1 points, 2.3 rebounds and 1.0 assist in 15.9 minutes per game while shooting 46.7 percent from 3-point range. He has played in 324 games during his NBA career with Brooklyn (2012-15), Phoenix (2015-16) and Milwaukee (2016-18) and holds career averages of 8.1 points and 3.2 rebounds per contest.
The Milwaukee Bucks have signed guard Brandon Jennings to a second 10-day contract.Jennings has appeared in each of Milwaukee’s four games since he signed his first 10-day contract on March 11. He is averaging 6.0 points, 5.5 assists and 2.8 rebounds in 15.8 minutes per game with the Bucks. In his first game on March 12 at Memphis, Jennings scored 16 points with 12 assists and eight rebounds.
Fiserv Forum, Milwaukee’s much anticipated sports and entertainment venue, officially opened its doors to the public following a ribbon-cutting ceremony held today on the plaza outside of the downtown arena.The ceremony was attended by current Bucks players Giannis Antetokounmpo and Khris Middleton, Bucks alumni Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Vin Baker, Marques Johnson, Jon McGlocklin, Steve Novak and Michael Redd, Bucks owners Wes Edens, Marc Lasry, Jamie Dinan and Mike Fascitelli, Bucks General Manager Jon Horst, Bucks Head Coach Mike Budenholzer, NBA Commissioner Adam Silver, Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker, Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, Milwaukee Common Council President Ashanti Hamilton, Fiserv President and CEO Jeff Yabuki and Bucks President Peter Feigin.Former Bucks owner Senator Herb Kohl also attended the ribbon-cutting ceremony and was honored by the Bucks for his 29-year stewardship of the team with the naming of Herb Kohl Way for the block in front of Fiserv Forum. The ribbon-cutting was held next to a world record-breaking welcome mat greeting fans with the event’s “Welcome Home” theme. The 92-feet long by 24-feet wide mat was verified by a Guinness World Records judge as the largest vinyl floor mat.After the ceremony, more than 50,000 people were expected to tour Fiserv Forum during the Open House, giving the community its first look inside the arena.The world-class Fiserv Forum is the new home of the Milwaukee Bucks and Marquette men’s basketball team. It will also host a variety of programming – 24 events have already been announced for the venue’s first year – including major concerts, family shows and other sports and entertainment events. Global superstar rock band The Killers will perform the Grand Opening concert at Fiserv Forum with Milwaukee natives Violent Femmes on Sept. 4. Fiserv Forum will seat 17,500 for basketball and up to 18,000 for concerts with incomparable sightlines from all vantage points. The arena has three clubs including the BMO Club, Mezzanine Club and Panorama Club, which is on the highest level of the building and features an outdoor terrace with sweeping views of Milwaukee’s skyline. Premium seating in Fiserv Forum includes 34 private suites, West Bend Lofts and more than 800 club seats.Fiserv Forum offers state-of-the-art technology, with more than 300 distributed antenna systems and 16 wireless access zones to allow for high-speed connectivity throughout the arena. Daktronics outfitted the arena with over 12,000 square feet of video displays, including the centerhung scoreboard, which is more than 3,900 square-feet, making it the largest equilateral centerhung display in the NBA. Fiserv Forum also contains more than 800 high-definition flat screen televisions. Fiserv Forum is redefining the culinary experience for a sports and entertainment venue by implementing MKEat, a dynamic, locally-focused food and beverage program. Led by Fiserv Forum Senior Executive Chef Kenneth Hardiman, and food and beverage provider Levy, MKEat features popular and diverse local culinary establishments throughout the venue’s 31 concession stands. Fiserv Forum also contains five expansive kitchens. As a cultural center for the city, Fiserv Forum houses the Milwaukee Bucks Art Collection, which includes 79 original pieces and 43 photographs, created by 32 artists, 22 of whom have Wisconsin ties. The Bucks collaborated with Sports & The Arts to secure an eclectic mix of artists and mediums.Fiserv Forum includes four Bucks Pro Shops and one kiosk, giving fans convenient locations to purchase a wide-selection of official Bucks gear.A groundbreaking ceremony for the new arena was held on June 18, 2016, with substantial completion of the building having occurred on July 31, 2018. Over 3,800 craft workers spent two million total work hours building Fiserv Forum, with 76 percent of the contracts to build the venue completed with Wisconsin companies.Fiserv Forum totals 730,000 square feet, stands 128 feet tall, and was built with more than 8,000 tons of structural steel. The sweeping north-side exterior façade of Fiserv Forum contains 80,440 square feet of zinc architectural panels. Fiserv Forum was designed by world-renowned Populous, and Wisconsin-based Eppstein Uhen Architects and HNTB. The owner’s representative for the project was CAA ICON, and the construction manager was Mortenson. M-E Engineers was the mechanical engineer and the structural engineers were HNTB and Walter P. Moore.Fiserv, Inc. was announced as the naming rights partner for the arena on July 26, 2018. Founding partners for Fiserv Forum are BMO Harris Bank, Froedtert & the Medical College of Wisconsin, Johnson Controls and Miller Brewing Company.Please find quotes regarding the opening of Fiserv Forum below: Milwaukee Bucks Co-Owners Wes Edens, Marc Lasry, Jamie Dinan and Mike Fascitelli“The opening of Fiserv Forum marks an incredible moment for this community. In the four years that we’ve had the privilege of being stewards of the Bucks, the opening of this world-class venue serves as our proudest achievement. Fiserv Forum will be the sporting and cultural heart of Milwaukee, welcoming the very best in sports and entertainment to Wisconsin. We’d like to thank Senator Herb Kohl for his extraordinary contribution to this arena, and to recognize the city, county and state leaders who were committed to this project. As we open the doors today, we also want to express appreciation to the dedicated workers who spent much time and energy in making Fiserv Forum a place that we can all be proud of.”Milwaukee Bucks Forward Giannis Antetokounmpo“My teammates and I are extremely grateful to everyone who played a role in building our amazing new home - Fiserv Forum. Every detail is incredible for the players and the fans. We are excited to start the season and play in front of our fantastic home crowd in the NBA’s best arena!”NBA Commissioner Adam Silver “Congratulations to the Bucks’ ownership group and the entire Milwaukee community on the opening of the incredible Fiserv Forum. It’s a shining example of what a public-private partnership can accomplish and, most importantly, provides the Bucks and their fans a well-deserved, world-class venue. As we celebrate this major milestone in the Bucks’ storied history, let me also recognize the vision of Herb Kohl, without whose commitment and generosity this project would not have happened.”Former Bucks Owner and Wisconsin Senator Herb Kohl“Today is a great day for our state. This beautiful, modern building will be used and enjoyed by millions of people. I’m proud to have been part of the process and congratulate the Milwaukee Bucks and our entire community. Let this day be the first of many future celebrations in the new arena.”Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker“Fiserv Forum, the Bucks’ new home, is a big deal for Wisconsin and specifically for Milwaukee. Because of the way we structured the deal, the state will receive an actual return of $2.99 for every dollar in the project. This is one of the reasons we could bring Democrats and Republicans together from all over the state to support our plan. It will help revitalize downtown Milwaukee, and at a time when more people are working in Wisconsin than ever before, we need more reasons to attract talent to the state. A new arena and an exciting team will help attract and retain prospective employees. It’s a slam dunk!”Milwaukee County Executive Chris Abele“It’s incredible to remember that, until a couple years ago, Park East was basically vacant. The fact that we now have a spectacular, world-class arena here will continue to have an enormous impact on our community. This arena means millions of dollars in our local economy, thousands of jobs and fantastic entertainment options, including our own Milwaukee Bucks. I’m beyond excited to see Fiserv Forum officially open, and I remain deeply proud of the role Milwaukee County played in making this project a reality.” Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett “Milwaukee is a major league city. Fiserv Forum, with its modern amenities and thoughtful design, and the Bucks’ presence in Milwaukee affirm that. The Bucks organization has had, and I’m certain will continue to have a major impact on Milwaukee. We’re confident Fiserv Forum will lead to new development in adjacent and nearby neighborhoods. We have already seen new activity at the Brewery, along Old World Third Street and in Haymarket. Bronzeville to the north and neighborhoods to the west will also see a positive impact.”Milwaukee Common Council President Ashanti Hamilton“As the new Fiserv Forum has risen to change both the landscape and skyline of Milwaukee it presents an opportunity for us to visualize this new structure as an example of what can happen citywide. When shared destiny and common ground come together anything is possible. Multifaceted collaborations like this are what we need to build the future.”
Fiserv Forum, Milwaukee’s new world-class sports and entertainment venue, will officially open its doors to the community on Sunday, Aug. 26.The ribbon-cutting ceremony, which begins at 12 p.m. on the plaza outside of Fiserv Forum, is scheduled to be attended by Bucks players Giannis Antetokounmpo, Eric Bledsoe, Donte DiVincenzo, Thon Maker, Khris Middleton and D.J. Wilson, Bucks alumni Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Vin Baker and Michael Redd, Bucks owners Wes Edens, Marc Lasry, Jamie Dinan and Mike Fascitelli, NBA Commissioner Adam Silver, Senator Herb Kohl, Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker, Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, Milwaukee Common Council President Ashanti Hamilton, Fiserv President and CEO Jeff Yabuki and Bucks President Peter Feigin. The public is invited to attend.“We are thrilled to open our doors to the community on Sunday,” said Bucks President Peter Feigin. “Fiserv Forum will be a place of pride for the city of Milwaukee and the state of Wisconsin and we invite everyone to come celebrate the opening together.”As part of the ribbon-cutting ceremony, former Bucks owner Sen. Herb Kohl will be honored with the dedication of Herb Kohl Way. In addition, the world’s largest welcome mat, measuring 92-feet long by 24-feet wide, will be unveiled outside of Fiserv Forum to welcome the community into its new home.Following the ribbon cutting, Fiserv Forum will hold an Open House for the community to get its first look inside the arena. Visitors will be able to go on self-guided tours of the venue to see the atrium, the arena bowl, BMO Club, Mezzanine Club, Panorama Club, main concourse, upper concourse and suite level. This will also be the first time the community can experience Fiserv Forum’s dynamic, locally-focused food and beverage program, MKEat, as concession stands throughout the arena will be operational during the event. The Bucks Pro Shop locations inside Fiserv Forum will also be open.BMO Harris Bank card holders will have the exclusive opportunity to tour the state-of-the-art Bucks locker room. A limited number of locker room tours will be available to BMO card holders who register for their tour at the BMO Harris Bank tent located near the BMO Entrance to Fiserv Forum on Juneau Ave.In celebration of the opening of Fiserv Forum, the Fourth Annual Bucks Summer Block Party Presented by Klement’s will be held on Sunday from 11 a.m. – 6 p.m. The Block Party will take place rain or shine outside of Fiserv Forum on Juneau Ave. between Vel R. Phillips Ave. and Fifth St. There will be live, local music including Grace Weber, Wait for Morning, Shonn Hinton and Shotgun. National hip-hop icon Skyzoo, a lineup of local hip-hop performers and a separate stage featuring local DJs will also perform. The Block Party will include plenty of food options, family-friendly activities, a Monster Jam Truck, games and additional vendors to celebrate the opening of Fiserv Forum in style. The Bucks Entertainment teams, including Bango, the Milwaukee Bucks Dancers, Rim Rockers and Hoop Troop, will be in attendance. 
The Milwaukee Bucks have achieved a first with their new arena: Fiserv Forum will be the world’s first bird-friendly sports and entertainment venue, upon completion of the Bucks’ application for LEED Silver® certification. This is a significant victory for bird conservation because up to 1 billion birds die annually after colliding with glass in the United States. Scientists estimate that this staggering total likely accounts for 5 to 10 percent of the birds in the United States and contributes to ongoing declines in bird populations across North America.Addressing collisions is vitally important not only because of the inherent value of birds, but also because birds reduce pest populations, pollinate plants, disperse seeds, provide other natural services, and captivate tens of millions of Americans with their beauty and fascinating behavior. “The Milwaukee Bucks’ bold decision to build the world’s first bird-friendly arena speaks volumes about the ownerships’ character, concern for the environment, and desire to be a part of a green community,” said Bird City Wisconsin’s former director Bryan Lenz, who recently joined the staff of American Bird Conservancy (ABC) as its Collisions Campaign Manager. “The Bucks stepped up for birds in a way that no sports franchise ever has. Hopefully the team’s message, that designing with birds in mind is an achievable goal, will set Fiserv Forum up as a model for arenas, stadiums and all other buildings for years to come.”The 17,500-seat Fiserv Forum is located in the heart of Milwaukee, which is a Bird City Wisconsin community. The arena was designed to achieve the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design program (LEED) Bird Collision Deterrence credit (SSpc55), which was created in partnership with ABC. Credit SSpc55 has already been approved on the pending LEED application for Fiserv Forum.            “Bird City Wisconsin came to us three years ago to educate us on migration and best practices,” said Milwaukee Bucks President Peter Feigin. “We were able to integrate many of their suggestions in the design phase of the project.” Buildings that achieve the Bird Collision Deterrence credit address the primary reasons that birds collide with buildings: reflective and see-through glass and lighting that disorients birds during their nocturnal spring and fall migrations. Wisconsin Humane Society will also work with the Bucks to monitor Fiserv Forum for collisions, following a plan designed in partnership with Bird City Wisconsin and ABC.“When glass or other glass-like materials are employed in venue design, it’s vital to balance insulation and reflectivity to create an ideal environment both inside and out, for people and for local wildlife,” said Heather Stewart, Senior Associate at Populous, the architectural design firm used for Fiserv Forum. “We are proud to hear that other sports venues are looking toward Fiserv Forum as the new standard for bird-friendly design around the globe.” Bird City Wisconsin first approached the Bucks about a bird-friendly arena in mid-2015. This community conservation organization, a program of Milwaukee Audubon Society, recognizes communities for bird-focused conservation and education actions that help create a healthy environment both for birds and people. Bird City Wisconsin works tirelessly to help the 109 Bird City communities across Wisconsin do all they can to further bird conservation.The American Robin is Wisconsin’s state bird and a member of the thrush family. Thrushes, like Wood Thrush and Swainson’s Thrush, are frequent victims of glass collisions.A number of organizations played critical roles in the construction of the world’s first bird-friendly arena, including Bucks’ leadership, Populous, CAA ICON, Bird City Wisconsin, ABC, Eppstein Uhen, Mortenson, M-E Engineers, France Sustainable Solutions and HNTB. All the partners finish the design process with newfound knowledge on how to build and operate buildings with birds in mind —knowledge that they will carry to future projects.“So many sports teams use animals and birds as mascots; this approach just makes perfect sense for them,” said Michael Parr, President of ABC. “Surely no sports teams want to kill wild birds at their facilities. The Bucks are showing the way. I am betting some good karma will head their way for this in coming seasons!”Fiserv Forum is registered with the certification goal of LEED Silver® and includes many other efforts that demonstrate that Bucks’ ownership is serious about reducing the team’s environmental footprint. Among these are landscaping with native plants, operations that avoid use of straws and other petroleum products, a composting program and low-flow toilets. Fiserv Forum was also built using high recycled content, regionally-sourced materials and low-emission products that help provide healthy indoor air quality for staff and guests.   During the upcoming season, the Bucks will provide online information about their LEED/Green Initiatives and offer LEED/Green tours of Fiserv Forum.“The Milwaukee Bucks have demonstrated outstanding conservation leadership and shown that it is possible to build a world-class facility with birds in mind,” Lenz said. “We hope that their example will inspire others to take action.”ABC is dedicated to conserving birds and their habitats throughout the Americas, with an emphasis on achieving results and working in partnership. One of ABC’s main goals is to eliminate threats to birds, including collisions with buildings and other infrastructure. ABC has contributed to making facilities safer for birds nationwide, from partnering to develop the Bird Collision Deterrence LEED credit, to working on the Federal Bird-Safe Buildings Act that has been introduced in both the House (H.R. 2542) and Senate (S. 1920) in the U.S. Congress. ABC has also helped individual organizations, including Northwestern University and Key West International Airport, to make their buildings safe for birds. 
The Los Angeles Lakers’ LeBron James and the Milwaukee Bucks’ Giannis Antetokounmpo have expanded their conference leads in the second fan returns of NBA All-Star Voting 2019 presented by Google.Fans account for 50 percent of the vote to determine the 10 starters for the 68th NBA All-Star Game, which will take place at Spectrum Center in Charlotte, N.C., on Sunday, Feb. 17 at 8 p.m. ET on TNT. All current NBA players and a media panel each account for 25 percent of the vote, with those voters completing one full ballot featuring two guards and three front court players from each conference.  Players may vote for their teammates or themselves. Voting for fans, players and media will conclude on Monday, Jan. 21 at 11:59 p.m. ET.In the second fan returns, James leads all players with 2,779,812 votes to maintain the top spot in the Western Conference frontcourt.  Dallas Mavericks rookie Luka Dončić (2,220,077) continues to rank second in the Westfrontcourt and has climbed to second among all West players.  The Oklahoma City Thunder’s Paul George(1,859,216) has moved up to third place in the West frontcourt, followed by the Golden State Warriors’ Kevin Durant (1,717,968) in fourth place and the New Orleans Pelicans’ Anthony Davis (1,564,347) in fifth place.Golden State’s Stephen Curry (2,094,158) has increased his lead among West guards, while the Minnesota Timberwolves’ Derrick Rose (1,986,840) remains in second place. The Houston Rockets’ James Harden(1,674,660) and Oklahoma City’s Russell Westbrook (1,494,382) are still in third and fourth place, respectively.In the Eastern Conference, Antetokounmpo (2,670,816) has strengthened his position as the leading vote-getter.  The top three players in the East frontcourt are unchanged, with Antetokounmpo joined by the Toronto Raptors’ Kawhi Leonard (2,092,806) in second place and the Philadelphia 76ers’ Joel Embiid (1,710,229) in third place.The East guard group is again led by the Boston Celtics’ Kyrie Irving (2,381,901) and the Miami Heat’s Dwyane Wade (1,199,789).  The Charlotte Hornets’ Kemba Walker (858,798) continues to hold third place, while Philadelphia’s Ben Simmons (695,032) remains in fourth place.The 2019 NBA All-Star Game will follow last year’s format: The two team captains will draft rosters from the pool of players voted as starters and reserves in each conference, making their picks regardless of conference affiliation. The captains will be the All-Star starter from each conference who receives the most fan votes in his conference. Details about the NBA All-Star Draft will be announced at a later date.NBA ALL-STAR VOTING 2019 PRESENTED BY GOOGLE: SECOND FAN RETURNSAfter all votes are tallied, players will be ranked in each conference by position (guard and frontcourt) within each of the three voting groups – fan votes, player votes and media votes.  Each player’s score will be calculated by averaging his weighted rank from the fan votes, the player votes and the media votes.  The two guards and three frontcourt players with the best score in each conference will be named NBA All-Star Game starters.  Fan voting will serve as the tiebreaker for players in a position group with the same score.NBA All-Star Voting 2019 presented by Google began on Dec. 25 and concludes on Jan. 21.  The third and final fan voting update will be shared on Thursday, Jan. 17. During the voting period, five “2-for-1 Days” allow fans to have their votes count twice.  The remaining 2-for-1 Days, which are designated 12 a.m. – 11:59 p.m. ET, take place today, tomorrow and Jan. 21 through all voting platforms.  The other 2-for-1 Days were held on Jan. 3 and Jan. 4.
The Los Angeles Lakers’ LeBron James and the Milwaukee Bucks’ Giannis Antetokounmpo have expanded their conference leads in the second fan returns of NBA All-Star Voting 2019 presented by Google.Fans account for 50 percent of the vote to determine the 10 starters for the 68th NBA All-Star Game, which will take place at Spectrum Center in Charlotte, N.C., on Sunday, Feb. 17 at 8 p.m. ET on TNT. All current NBA players and a media panel each account for 25 percent of the vote, with those voters completing one full ballot featuring two guards and three front court players from each conference.  Players may vote for their teammates or themselves. Voting for fans, players and media will conclude on Monday, Jan. 21 at 11:59 p.m. ET.In the second fan returns, James leads all players with 2,779,812 votes to maintain the top spot in the Western Conference frontcourt.  Dallas Mavericks rookie Luka Dončić (2,220,077) continues to rank second in the Westfrontcourt and has climbed to second among all West players.  The Oklahoma City Thunder’s Paul George(1,859,216) has moved up to third place in the West frontcourt, followed by the Golden State Warriors’ Kevin Durant (1,717,968) in fourth place and the New Orleans Pelicans’ Anthony Davis (1,564,347) in fifth place.Golden State’s Stephen Curry (2,094,158) has increased his lead among West guards, while the Minnesota Timberwolves’ Derrick Rose (1,986,840) remains in second place. The Houston Rockets’ James Harden(1,674,660) and Oklahoma City’s Russell Westbrook (1,494,382) are still in third and fourth place, respectively.In the Eastern Conference, Antetokounmpo (2,670,816) has strengthened his position as the leading vote-getter.  The top three players in the East frontcourt are unchanged, with Antetokounmpo joined by the Toronto Raptors’ Kawhi Leonard (2,092,806) in second place and the Philadelphia 76ers’ Joel Embiid (1,710,229) in third place.The East guard group is again led by the Boston Celtics’ Kyrie Irving (2,381,901) and the Miami Heat’s Dwyane Wade (1,199,789).  The Charlotte Hornets’ Kemba Walker (858,798) continues to hold third place, while Philadelphia’s Ben Simmons (695,032) remains in fourth place.The 2019 NBA All-Star Game will follow last year’s format: The two team captains will draft rosters from the pool of players voted as starters and reserves in each conference, making their picks regardless of conference affiliation. The captains will be the All-Star starter from each conference who receives the most fan votes in his conference. Details about the NBA All-Star Draft will be announced at a later date.NBA ALL-STAR VOTING 2019 PRESENTED BY GOOGLE: SECOND FAN RETURNSAfter all votes are tallied, players will be ranked in each conference by position (guard and frontcourt) within each of the three voting groups – fan votes, player votes and media votes.  Each player’s score will be calculated by averaging his weighted rank from the fan votes, the player votes and the media votes.  The two guards and three frontcourt players with the best score in each conference will be named NBA All-Star Game starters.  Fan voting will serve as the tiebreaker for players in a position group with the same score.NBA All-Star Voting 2019 presented by Google began on Dec. 25 and concludes on Jan. 21.  The third and final fan voting update will be shared on Thursday, Jan. 17. During the voting period, five “2-for-1 Days” allow fans to have their votes count twice.  The remaining 2-for-1 Days, which are designated 12 a.m. – 11:59 p.m. ET, take place today, tomorrow and Jan. 21 through all voting platforms.  The other 2-for-1 Days were held on Jan. 3 and Jan. 4.
The Los Angeles Lakers’ LeBron James and the Milwaukee Bucks’ Giannis Antetokounmpo lead their respective conferences in the first fan returns of NBA All-Star Voting 2019 presented by Google.Fans account for 50 percent of the vote to determine the 10 starters for the 68th NBA All-Star Game, which will take place at Spectrum Center in Charlotte, N.C., on Sunday, Feb. 17 at 8 p.m. ET on TNT. All current NBA players and a media panel each account for 25 percent of the vote, with every voter completing one full ballot featuring two guards and three frontcourt players from each conference. Voting for fans, players and media will conclude on Monday, Jan. 21 at 11:59 p.m. ET.James, a 14-time NBA All-Star and three-time Kia NBA All-Star Most Valuable Player, leads all players with 1,083,363 votes to earn the top spot in the Western Conference frontcourt in the first fan returns.  Dallas Mavericks rookie Luka Dončić ranks second in the West frontcourt with 679,839 votes, followed closely by the Golden State Warriors’ Kevin Durant (659,968).  The New Orleans Pelicans’ Anthony Davis (605,417) and the Oklahoma City Thunder’s Paul George (580,055) round out the top five in that position group.Golden State’s Stephen Curry holds first place among West guards with 793,111 votes. The Minnesota Timberwolves’ Derrick Rose is second with 698,086 votes. The Houston Rockets’ James Harden (541,606) and Oklahoma City’s Russell Westbrook (459,792) are third and fourth, respectively, among West guards.Antetokounmpo, an NBA All-Star in each of the previous two seasons, is the top vote-getter among all Eastern Conference players, receiving 991,561 votes in the frontcourt group.  Joining Antetokounmpo at the top of the East frontcourt are second-place Kawhi Leonard of the Toronto Raptors (774,172) and third-place Joel Embiid ofthe Philadelphia 76ers (648,002). In the East guard group, the Boston Celtics’ Kyrie Irving leads with 910,329 votes. The Miami Heat’s Dwyane Wade is the second-leading guard with 409,156 votes, while the Charlotte Hornets’ Kemba Walker (319,519) ranks third and Philadelphia’s Ben Simmons (259,993) is fourth.The 2019 NBA All-Star Game will follow last year’s format: The two team captains will draft rosters from the pool of players voted as starters and reserves in each conference, making their picks regardless of conference affiliation. The captains will be the All-Star starter from each conference who receives the most fan votes in his conference. Details about the NBA All-Star Draft will be announced at a later date.NBA ALL-STAR VOTING 2019 PRESENTED BY GOOGLE: FIRST FAN RETURNSEastern Conference:FrontcourtGuardsWestern Conference:FrontcourtGuardsAfter all votes are tallied, players will be ranked in each conference by position (guard and frontcourt) within each of the three voting groups – fan votes, player votes and media votes.  Each player’s score will be calculated by averaging his weighted rank from the fan votes, the player votes and the media votes.  The two guards and three frontcourt players with the best score in each conference will be named NBA All-Star Game starters.  Fan voting will serve as the tiebreaker for players in a position group with the same score.NBA All-Star Voting 2019 presented by Google runs from Dec. 25 – Jan. 21.  The two remaining fan voting updates will be shared on Thursday, Jan. 10 and Thursday, Jan. 17. During the voting period, five “2-for-1 Days” allow fans to have their votes count twice.  The 2-for-1 Days, which are designated 12 a.m. – 11:59 p.m. ET, take place today, tomorrow, Jan. 10, Jan. 11 and Jan. 21 through all voting platforms.
Bucks forward Giannis Antetokounmpo has been named the Eastern Conference Player of the Week for games played from Dec. 17-23.Leading the Bucks to a 3-1 record last week, Antetokounmpo averaged 24.0 points, 10.3 rebounds, 5.3 assists and 2.0 blocks per game while shooting 57.6 percent from the field. He tallied two 30-point games, scoring 32 points on 15-for-24 (.714) shooting in a win over Detroit on Monday and 30 points on 8-for-13 (.615) shooting in a 13-point win over Boston on Friday.On the season, Antetokounmpo is averaging 26.2 points (T-8th in the NBA), a career-high 12.8 rebounds (5th in the NBA) and 6.0 assists per game in addition to 1.4 blocks and 1.2 steals a contest. He’s also shooting a career-best 58.3 percent from the field. This is the third time this season, and sixth time in Antetokounmpo’s career, he’s been named Player of the Week. He was also named the Eastern Conference’s Player of the Month for October and November this season.
Bucks forward Giannis Antetokounmpo has been named the Eastern Conference Player of the Week for games played from Dec. 24-30. This is the second consecutive week Antetokounmpo has been named Player of the Week and the fourth time this season.While leading the Bucks to a 3-0 record last week, Antetokounmpo averaged 30.7 points, 12.7 rebounds, 7.0 assists, 3.0 blocks and 2.3 steals per game while shooting 62.1 percent from the field. He scored at least 30 points and hauled in 10 or more rebounds in all three contests, which included picking up his third triple-double of the season with 31 points (13-17 FG, .765), 10 rebounds and 10 assists in a win over the Nets on Saturday.On the season, Antetokounmpo is averaging 26.6 points (T-8th in the NBA), and career-highs in both rebounds (12.8, T-5th in the NBA) and assists (6.1) per game in addition to 1.5 blocks and 1.3 steals each contest. He’s also shooting a career-best 58.6 percent from the field (10th in the NBA) as the Bucks enter the New Year with the best record in the NBA at 25-10.
Bucks forward Giannis Antetokounmpo has been named the KIA NBA Eastern Conference Player of the Month for December, the NBA announced today. Antetokounmpo also won Player of the Month for October/November this season, with this month’s honor being the third time he’s won Player of the Month in his career. While leading the Bucks to a 10-4 record in December and to the top spot of the NBA standings, Antetokounmpo averaged 25.6 points, 12.5 rebounds, 6.2 assists, 1.9 blocks and 1.2 steals per game while shooting 60.3 percent from the field. He scored 30 or more points in seven of his 13 games in December, including a career-high-tying 44 points against the Cavaliers on Dec. 14, and had six games with at least 30 points and 10 rebounds. Antetokounmpo capped off 2018 with his 12th career triple-double on Dec. 29 against Brooklyn, scoring 31 points with 10 rebounds and 10 assists. In addition to winning the last two KIA NBA Eastern Conference Player of the Month awards, Antetokounmpo has won the previous two Eastern Conference Player of the Week honors. On the season Antetokounmpo is averaging 26.3 points (10th in the NBA), 12.6 rebounds (6th in the NBA), 6.1 assists, 1.6 blocks and 1.3 steals per game while shooting 58.6 percent (10th in the NBA) from the field. 

Joe Prunty will remain as the head coach of the Milwaukee Bucks for the remainder of the 2017-18 season. Prunty leads the Bucks coaching staff that includes assistant coaches Greg Foster, Sean Sweeney, Stacey Augmon, Josh Broghamer and new assistant coach Vin Baker.“We believe that Joe is the right person to lead our team and help us achieve our goals,” said General Manager Jon Horst. “He has the knowledge and experience, along with the respect of our players and staff, to get the job done.“Joe and his staff will be evaluated and considered as part of our widespread off-season search for our next head coach.”Prunty is in his fourth season with the Bucks after serving as an assistant coach under Jason Kidd in Brooklyn during the 2013-14 campaign. Currently in his 22nd season in the NBA, Prunty has also coached with Cleveland (2010-13), Portland (2008-10), Dallas (2005-08) and San Antonio (1996-2005), where he was a part of three NBA Championships. He was also the head coach of Great Britain’s men’s national team.A 13-year NBA veteran, Baker was a four-time All-Star who averaged 15.0 points, 7.4 rebounds and 1.9 assists in 791 career games. A graduate of the University of Hartford, he was the 8th overall pick by the Bucks in the 1993 NBA Draft. Along with Milwaukee, Baker also played with Seattle, Boston, New York, Houston and the Los Angeles Clippers. Last season, Baker worked as an assistant coach with the Texas Legends of the NBA G League. Most recently, he was the pre- and post-game analyst for Bucks telecasts on FOX Sports Wisconsin, and also served as a volunteer coaching assistant with Milwaukee.
Milwaukee Bucks point guard Malcolm Brogdon is expanding his commitment to the clean water crisis by creating Hoops2o and launching the program alongside four other NBA players, collectively known as the ‘Starting 5.’'The mission of Hoops2o is to leverage the NBA platform to unite fans and players with a goal of raising funds and awareness to provide clean water to East African communities in desperate need. The Starting 5 have set the goal to raise $225,000 to fund five wells, one for each of the Starting 5 teams, by the end of the 2018-2019 NBA season.Hoops2o emerged via the successful Waterboys initiative that was started by two-time Super Bowl Champion and Eagles defensive end Chris Long, and has flourished through the commitment of 29 NFL players since its founding in 2015. The collective impact model leverages the power of professional sports to more quickly and effectively address the world water crisis.After traveling to Ghana and Malawi as a child and seeing the effects of poverty, Brogdon has been driven to make a difference in Africa and use his platform to provide solutions for suffering communities.“I saw from a very young age the value of clean water in communities in Africa,” said Malcolm Brogdon, founder Hoops2o. “I made a promise to myself that once I reached a time and place in my career where I could do more, I would. When I learned about Chris’ Waterboys initiative and saw their accomplishments by working as a team of players to inspire action, I knew I wanted to expand his vision into the NBA and address our ultimate shared goal to save more lives faster and transform communities.”“I’ve always known that Waterboys had the potential to be bigger than any one league,” said Waterboys Founder Chris Long. “I’m honored that our work is expanding into the NBA and I couldn’t be more excited about what this will mean for our neighbors who lack access to a fundamental resource. I’m confident that working together as a united front, the NFL’s Waterboys and the NBA’s Starting 5 will bring us one step closer to providing water to one million people.”All funds raised through the Hoops2o program will go towards the building of solar paneled, sustainable deep borehole wells in communities in East Africa. Each well comes with a price tag of $45,000 and provides water for up to 7,500 people, meaning that a donation of as little as six dollars can save a life.
Milwaukee Bucks forward Ersan Ilyasova underwent successful surgery today to repair a fractured nose, which he sustained during practice on Dec. 16. The surgery was performed by Dr. Sachin Pawar of the Froedtert & Medical College of Wisconsin health network under the supervision of Bucks team physician Dr. William Raasch. Ilyasova will remain out and his status will be updated as appropriate.In 24 games (two starts) for the Bucks this season, Ilyasova is averaging 7.5 points, 5.5 rebounds and 1.2 assists in 19.9 minutes per game while shooting 43.0 percent from the field.
The Milwaukee Bucks have assigned guard Donte DiVincenzo to the Wisconsin Herd of the NBA G League.In 22 games for the Bucks this season, DiVincenzo is averaging 5.0 points, 2.5 rebounds and 1.2 assists in 16.1 minutes per game.In his initial G League assignment of the season from Dec. 19-24, DiVincenzo averaged 17.5 points, 4.5 rebounds, 2.5 assists, 1.5 steals and 1.5 blocks in two games for the Herd during the G League Winter Showcase. DiVincenzo will be in uniform tonight as the Herd takes on the Long Island Nets at Menominee Nation Arena at 7 p.m. Tonight’s game will be broadcast on myNEW32 and on Facebook Live and can be heard on The Score (95.3 FM Appleton and 99.1 FM Oshkosh).
The Milwaukee Bucks, City of Milwaukee and Milwaukee Public Schools (MPS) have officially launched a first-of-its-kind partnership – MENTOR Greater Milwaukee – to provide support to mentor organizations and programs across the city and to help meet the demand for quality mentors in Milwaukee.MENTOR Greater Milwaukee (MGM) is the 25th affiliate of MENTOR: The National Mentoring Partnership, a national organization that operates in collaboration with local affiliates to serve the mentoring field and young people across the country. MGM is the first of the 25 affiliates to have an NBA team, the city it’s based in and the primary school district in the state, partnered together.“Mentoring is of the utmost importance to the entire Bucks organization,” Milwaukee Bucks and Fiserv Forum President Peter Feigin said. “We aim to use our platform to engage our corporate and community partners to join in the mentoring movement and to make a lasting impact across Milwaukee and Wisconsin. We look forward to seeing what MGM can accomplish in the near and long-term future.”MGM will provide the necessary infrastructure to improve the quality of mentoring programs across Milwaukee by recruiting and supporting more mentors, fostering new collaborations, influencing public policy, increasing philanthropic support for mentoring and by collecting data to describe the impact of mentoring and identifying gaps in the range of services needed. MGM has set an initial goal of generating 1,000 new mentors in Milwaukee by the end of 2020. Alicia Moore, a Milwaukee native and Marquette University graduate who has worked in non-profit organizations for more than 10 years, has been named the Executive Director of MGM and will spearhead these efforts.“The City of Milwaukee is pleased to announce MENTOR Greater Milwaukee, a partnership with the Milwaukee Bucks and Milwaukee Public Schools, which will work to increase the number of mentors to benefit our young people,” said Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett. “Mentorship is an important way to connect our youth with someone who can guide them, keep them engaged and invest in their futures.”“We have the power to change someone’s trajectory simply by pouring positivity into their lives,” said Milwaukee Common Council President Ashanti Hamilton. “This is why I believe mentoring is powerful, and this power should be at the center of our efforts to create a better Milwaukee.” “Mentors not only serve as role models, but they help students feel valued and empowered,” said MPS Superintendent Dr. Keith P. Posley. “We look forward to engaging with mentors across the city who will support our students now and look to them as leaders in the decades to come.”Since 2014, mentoring has been a focus of the NBA thanks to former President Obama’s My Brother’s Keeper initiative. The NBA partnered with MENTOR: The National Mentoring Partnership in late 2014 and made a commitment to help recruit 25,000 new mentors over five years. The NBA hit that mark in 18 months and since has doubled its overall commitment to 50,000 new mentors.
The Milwaukee Bucks have recalled forward Christian Wood from the Wisconsin Herd of the NBA G League.Wood recorded game-highs in both points (30) and rebounds (14) in Saturday’s matchup against the Grand Rapids Drive at Menominee Nation Arena in Oshkosh, Wis. He also shot 10-for-17 (.588) from the field, 3-of-6 from three and a perfect 7-for-7 from the free-throw line. In 11 games (all starts) with the Herd this season, Wood is averaging 28.6 points, 12.5 rebounds, 2.5 blocks and 2.3 assists per game while shooting 53.3 percent from the field.Wood has appeared in six games for the Bucks this season and is averaging 4.2 points and 2.7 rebunds in 6.1 minutes per game while shooting 52.9 percent from the field.
The Milwaukee Bucks have recalled guard Donte DiVincenzo from the Wisconsin Herd of the NBA G League.In last night’s game against the Long Island Nets at Menominee Nation Arena in Oshkosh, Wis., DiVincenzo scored 17 points, hauled in six rebounds, dished out three assists and had three steals in 31 minutes. In three games with the Herd this season, DiVincenzo is now averaging 17.3 points, 5.0 rebounds, 2.7 assists, 2.0 steals and 1.3 blocks in 32.9 minutes per game.In 22 games for the Bucks this season, DiVincenzo is averaging 5.0 points, 2.5 rebounds and 1.2 assists in 16.1 minutes per game.
The Milwaukee Bucks have requested waivers on Two-Way guard Jaylen Morris.Originally signed to a Two-Way contract on July 31, Morris appeared in four games with the Bucks this season and averaged 2.5 points, 1.3 rebounds and 1.0 assist in 7.1 minutes per game. Morris also played in 13 games (all starts) with the Bucks’ G League affiliate, the Wisconsin Herd, and averaged 14.1 points, 4.6 rebounds, 2.3 assists and 1.2 steals per contest.The Bucks roster now stands at 16 players.
The Milwaukee Bucks have signed center Brook Lopez.A 10-year NBA veteran, Lopez spent the 2017-18 season with the Los Angeles Lakers after playing the first nine seasons of his career with the Brooklyn Nets. Originally selected by the Nets with the 10th overall pick in the 2008 NBA Draft, Lopez holds career averages of 17.9 points, 6.8 rebounds, 1.7 blocks and 1.6 assists per game, appearing in 636 career games (599 starts) with the Nets and Lakers.“Brook is a proven NBA center who bolsters our front line with his size and skill set,” said Bucks General Manager Jon Horst. “He has demonstrated the ability to stretch the floor on offense, as well as anchor the defensive end of the court. He’s a great teammate and we know he will be a positive addition to our roster both on and off the court.”A 7-foot center, Lopez has averaged double-figure scoring in each of his 10 seasons in the league, including averaging 13.0 points in addition to 4.0 rebounds, 1.7 assists and 1.3 blocks per contest in 2017-18 with the Lakers. Prior to joining Los Angeles, Lopez averaged over 20.0 points per game in three of his final four seasons with Brooklyn where he averaged 18.6 points, 7.1 rebounds, 1.7 blocks and 1.5 assists over nine seasons and is the franchise’s all-time leader in points, blocks and field goals made.After making just three 3-pointers in his first eight seasons, the Stanford product has made 246 3-pointers over the last two seasons combined, shooting 34.6 percent from beyond the arc in those two seasons. For his career, Lopez is a 50.2 percent shooter from the field.


Deaturing a pair of USA Basketball World Cup Qualifying Teams veterans, and boasting of nine players who played with NBA teams in 2017-18, USA Basketball announced its official 12-man roster for the September USA World Cup Qualifying Team.The USA will continue its training through Sept. 13 at UNLV’s Mendenhall Center. The USA, playing in the first competition window of FIBA World Cup Qualifying second-round games, will meet Uruguay on Sept. 14 (7 p.m. PDT) at UNLV’s Cox Pavilion, then meet Panama on Sept. 17 in Panama City.Former NBA head coach Jeff Van Gundy, who led the USA to a 5-0 record and the gold medal at the 2017 FIBA AmeriCup Championship and led the USA to a 5-1 record in the first-round of the FIBA Americas World Cup Qualifying, is again head coach of the USA Basketball Men’s World Cup Qualifying Team. NBA G League Westchester Knicks head coach Mike Miller, and former Georgetown University coach John Thompson III, are serving as USA assistant coaches.Hearn and Warney return to the USA Team after previously playing with USA World Cup Qualifying Teams. Hearn played with the USA’s November 2017 and June 2018 World Cup Qualifying Teams, and started in all four games and averaged 12.3 points a game. Warney played for U.S. in the November World Cup Qualifier and averaged 11.5 points and 8.0 rebounds a game. Both players were also part of the USA AmeriCup Team that finished 5-0 to claim gold in August 2017. Warney, who was selected the 2017 USA Basketball Male Athlete of the Year, earned AmeriCup MVP honors after posting 12.8 points and 8.6 rebounds per game, while Hearn contributed 10.0 points a game.Nine of the players earned NBA playing time in 2017-18, including Bacon (53 games with Charlotte Hornets); Ellenson (38 games with Detroit Pistons); Hearn (three games with Detroit Pistons); Hicks (18 games with New York Knicks); Johnson (31 games with Oklahoma City Thunder); Mason (52 games with Sacramento Kings); Moore (two games with Indiana Pacers); Warney (three games with Dallas Mavericks) and White (17 games with San Antonio Spurs). Additionally, Randle played 26 games in 2016-17 for the NBA New York Knicks and Philadelphia 76ers.Eleven of the players own NBA G League experience, including nine who played in the NBA’s official minor league in 2017-18. The USA will complete the September competition window with an away game versus Panama (3-3) on Sept. 17 in Panama City.2017-18 FIBA World Cup QualifiersFollowing the completion of the first round, the top three finishing teams in each of the four, first-round groups advanced to the second round. The three advancing teams from Group A, Argentina (5-1), Uruguay (4-2) and Panama (3-3), and the top three finishers from Group C, USA, Puerto Rico (4-2) and Mexico (3-3), form Group E. The top three finishers from Group B, Venezuela (5-1), Brazil (5-1) and Chile (1-5), and Group D, Canada (5-1), Dominican Republic (4-2) and U.S. Virgin Islands (2-4), form Group F. The three second-round windows of competition will take place Sept. 13-17, 2018; Nov. 29-Dec. 3, 2018; and Feb. 21-25, 2019.Following completion of the Americas second-round games, seven teams will qualify out of the zone for the 2019 FIBA World Cup, including the top three finishing teams from Group E and Group F, and the top rated fourth placed team between Group E and Group F.Under FIBA’s new competition system, a total of 80 national teams from FIBA’s four regions of Africa, Americas, Asia (which now includes Oceania) and Europe initially competed in the FIBA Basketball World Cup 2019 Qualifying first round looking to earn a qualifying berth into the 32-team 2019 FIBA Basketball World Cup competition that will be held Aug. 31-Sept. 15 in China.The FIBA World Cup Qualifying games are being used to qualify 31 of the 32 nations that will compete in the 2019 FIBA World Cup. China automatically qualified as the host nation of the 2019 FIBA World Cup.Five teams will qualify from Africa, seven teams from the Americas, seven teams from Asia and 12 teams from Europe.           The current two-time defending World Cup champion USA men have participated in 17 FIBA World Cups and have collected 12 medals - five gold medals (1954, 1986, 1994, 2010 and 2014), three silver medals (1950, 1959 and 1982) and four bronze medals (1974, 1990, 1998 and 2006). USA teams own an overall record of 123-27.Results from the FIBA Basketball World Cup 2019 will qualify seven teams for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. Additionally, Olympic host, Japan, automatically qualified, and the final four nations will qualify through four FIBA Olympic Qualifying Tournaments that will be held in 2020 in advance of the Olympics.About USA BasketballBased in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and chaired by retired Gen. Martin Dempsey, USA Basketball is a nonprofit organization and the national governing body for basketball in the United States. As the recognized governing body for basketball in the U.S. by the International Basketball Federation (FIBA) and the United States Olympic Committee (USOC), USA Basketball is responsible for the selection, training and fielding of USA national teams that compete in FIBA-sponsored five-on-five and 3x3 international competitions, as well as for some national competitions and for the development of youth basketball.
The Wisconsin Entertainment and Sports Center (WESC) will hold a job fair on Wednesday, June 20 to hire 600 part-time positions for Milwaukee’s upcoming world-class arena. Taking place from 1-7 p.m., the job fair will be held at the Wisconsin Center District, 500 W. Wells St., Milwaukee.The WESC will begin hiring in early July for positions in guest experience, retail, box office and security, all with hourly wages starting at $12.50.Levy, the arena’s world-class food and beverage provider, will also be at the job fair interviewing candidates for an additional 600 part-time positions, making for a total of approximately 1,200 positions to be filled at the new arena. Levy will be hiring and managing positions, including concession workers, cooks and bartenders. “We are building the best sports and entertainment venue in the world, and we are committed to creating a preeminent guest experience,” said Kelly Kauffman, Senior Vice President of Human Resources for the Milwaukee Bucks. “We are seeking candidates with strong work ethics and excellent customer service and problem-solving skills. These employees will play a critical role in ensuring our guests have an amazing experience and want to keep coming back.”About the Wisconsin Entertainment and Sports CenterScheduled to open in the fall of 2018, the Wisconsin Entertainment and Sports Center (WESC) will be a preeminent sports and entertainment arena in downtown Milwaukee. Designed by Populous, Eppstein Uhen Architects and HNTB, the venue will offer incomparable sightlines, customer service and amenities.  WESC will include 17,500 seats for basketball and up to 18,000 for concerts, and will offer 34 luxury suites and three clubs. The new venue will host a diverse schedule of events, including major concerts, family shows, the Milwaukee Bucks, Marquette men’s basketball, and other sports and entertainment.Founding Partners for the WESC include BMO Harris Bank, Froedtert & the Medical College of Wisconsin, Johnson Controls and Miller Brewing Company, with more to be announced, along with a naming rights partner.The Construction Manager of the venue is Mortenson Construction and the Project Manager/Owner’s Representative is CAA ICON.
The Wisconsin Herd, the NBA G League affiliate of the Milwaukee Bucks, obtained the returning player rights to Shevon Thompson from the Raptors 905 in exchange for MiKyle McIntosh and the returning player rights to JeQuan Lewis.Thompson last played with Istanbul Buyuksehir Belediyesi (Turkey), averaging 8.7 points, 6.1 rebounds and 1.3 blocks in 16.2 minutes per game. The 7-foot center spent the 2017-18 season with the 905, appearing in 41 games (five starts) and averaged 10.5 points and 7.6 rebounds in 20.3 minutes per game. McIntosh appeared in 18 games (all starts) with Anyang KGC (Korea) this season, averaging 17.4 points, 7.6 rebounds and 2.1 assists. Lewis played most recently with GS Kymis (Greece). The guard saw action in 49 games (16 starts) with the Herd last season and averaged 9.2 points, 2.3 rebounds and 4.5 assists. 
The Wisconsin Herd, the NBA G League affiliate of the Milwaukee Bucks,  have acquired the returning player rights to Travis Trice in a three-team deal that includes the Westchester Knicks and the Capital City Go-Go. To complete the trade, the Herd sends the returning player rights to Josh Davis to Capital City and Westchester acquires the returning player rights to Duje Dukan from Capital City. Trice, 25, played 58 games over two seasons (2015-16, 2016-17) for Westchester and averaged 16.2 points, 5.8 assists, 3.5 rebounds and 1.3 steals per game. He played the last two seasons in the NBL (Australia and New Zealand) with the Cairns Taipans (2016-17) and Brisbane Bullets (2017-18). Trice averaged 8.8 points, 4.0 assists and 3.2 rebounds in the five Milwaukee Bucks 2018 Summer League games and signed a training camp contract with the team on July 18. The Springfield, Ohio, native played collegiately at Michigan State (2011-2015).The Herd obtained the rights to Josh Davis, 27, from the Greensboro Swarm in the 2017 NBA G League Expansion Draft, but he did not appear in any games for Wisconsin. After going undrafted in 2014, Davis played the 2014-15 season with the Austin Spurs in the G League. Since 2015, he has played professionally overseas in the Philippines and Japan.The Capital City Go-Go selected Dukan in the 2018 NBA G League Expansion Draft. Dukan, 26, has played in the G League for the last three seasons with the Reno Bighorns, Windy City Bulls and Fort Wayne Mad Ants. In 76 career games, he averaged 9.3 points and 3.0 rebounds per contest. Dukan played collegiately at Wisconsin and averaged 3.1 points and 1.7 rebounds in 97 career games for the Badgers.

The Wisconsin Herd, the NBA G League affiliate of the Milwaukee Bucks, added NBA veteran Shannon Brown to its roster while Xavier Munford plays for Team USA during the FIBA Basketball World Cup 2019 Americas Qualifiers.Brown (6-4, 210), brings nine years of NBA experience with eight teams, including the Miami Heat, San Antonio Spurs, New York Knicks, Phoenix Suns, Los Angeles Lakers, Charlotte Hornets, Chicago Bulls and Cleveland Cavaliers. He won two NBA Championships with the Los Angeles Lakers (2009, 2010). Brown has appeared in 409 games averaging 7.6 points and 1.9 rebounds over 17.9 minutes. He is the older brother of Sterling Brown, the Milwaukee Bucks’ rookie guard. 

 
MILWAUKEE -- The Milwaukee Bucks announced today that 2007 first round draft pick Yi Jianlian (EE jee-AHN-lee-AHN) has signed a multi-year contract.  The Bucks 6th overall selection in the 2007 NBA Draft, Yi Jianlian signed his contract in Hong Kong following a negotiating session with Mr. Chen Haitao, owner of the Guangdong Tigers.  Bucks owner and team president Senator Herb Kohl, General Manager Larry Harris and Bucks Vice President Ron Walter were able to meet with Mr. Chen, as well as Yi and his family, as part of the process.
VideoPhotos
Yi Jianlian is expected to join the team for training camp that begins on Monday, October 1 at the Bucks Training Center in St. Francis, WI.

“There has been a genuine excitement throughout our city and state, as well as internationally, following our selection of Yi in the NBA Draft,” said Senator Herb Kohl.  “We all anticipate Yi’s arrival and welcome him and his family to Milwaukee.  We look forward to a successful relationship for many years to come.”

“We would be remiss if we didn’t acknowledge and thank Mr. Chen for his assistance and support in the negotiating process,” Kohl added.

“We were thrilled to be able to draft Yi Jianlian in June and are equally excited to sign him to a NBA contract as a member of the Milwaukee Bucks,” said Harris.  “We drafted Yi with the expectation that he would be a part of our franchise for a very long time and this is the first step in that process.  Yi is a skilled and versatile young man who we have seen play numerous times over the last few years including this summer in the NBA Summer League.  Our players and coaches look forward to working with Yi and I know our fans will enjoy watching him compete with the many talented, young players on our roster.”

NBA Commissioner David J. Stern commented, “We are happy that Yi will be playing with the Bucks to further develop his skill and his contribution to both the Chinese National Team and the NBA. This is another great example of cooperation between the CBA and the NBA and I want to congratulate the CBA, Mr. Chen, the Guangdong Tigers and the Milwaukee Bucks.”

A 6-11, 238-lbs. forward, Yi Jianlian has played professionally for the Guangdong Tigers of the Chinese Basketball Association (CBA) since 2002-03, when he was awarded Rookie of the Year honors.  He has competed in the last five CBA Finals and won titles in 2004, 2005 and 2006, earning the Finals Most Valuable Player honors in 2006.  In 2003-04, he averaged 9.7 points and 5.9 rebounds in 28 games, including his first CBA title.  The following season in 53 contests, Yi improved his numbers to 16.8 points, 10.2 rebounds and 1.4 blocked shots on his way to a second consecutive CBA title.  Yi led Guangdong to a third straight CBA title in 2005-06, averaging 20.5 points, 9.7 rebounds and 1.3 blocks in 52 games.  Last season, Yi posted career-high averages with 24.9 points, 11.5 rebounds and 1.8 blocks in 30.7 minutes.  He led Guangdong to a fifth straight appearance in the CBA Finals, but bowed to Bayi in five games (4-1).

This summer, Yi Jianlian and Team China Basketball played five games in the NBA Summer League in Las Vegas.  Yi averaged 12.4 points, 4.4 rebounds and 1.4 blocked shots in 28.0 minutes per game.  He tallied a team-high 23 points vs. Memphis, and 20 points, including the game-winner, in Team China Basketball’s win over Cleveland.

Most recently in the Efes Pilsen World Cup in Izmir, Turkey, Yi averaged 23 points and 8 rebounds over three games against Poland (28 points, 10 rebounds), Serbia (17 points, 9 rebounds) and Latvia (24 points, 5 rebounds).

Yi competed for the Chinese National Team at the 2004 Olympics in Athens and the 2006 FIBA World Championship in Japan.

Here's a first look mock draft with the conclusion of the NBA Draft Lottery Tuesday. The NBA draft is June 21 and the Chicago Draft Camp is this week. Teams will begin to mostly interview top players in the draft and perform measurements. Players generally regarded as potential second round picks will play in scrimmages.Bulls vice president John Paxson said the Bulls have been conducting workouts, but probably won't have players among the projected top 10 in the Advocate Center for workouts until next month. The Bulls have the Nos 7 and 22 picks, the latter from the trade of Nikola Mirotic to the New Orleans Pelicans. Paxson pointed out personal interviews and workouts are not essential since the Bulls traded for the No 7 pick last year at the draft, so they hadn't done workouts with Markkanen. But they selected the Arizona seven footer from Finland.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
Here's a first look mock draft with the conclusion of the NBA Draft Lottery Tuesday. The NBA draft is June 21 and the Chicago Draft Camp is this week. Teams will begin to mostly interview top players in the draft and perform measurements. Players generally regarded as potential second round picks will play in scrimmages.Bulls vice president John Paxson said the Bulls have been conducting workouts, but probably won't have players among the projected top 10 in the Advocate Center for workouts until next month. The Bulls have the Nos 7 and 22 picks, the latter from the trade of Nikola Mirotic to the New Orleans Pelicans. Paxson pointed out personal interviews and workouts are not essential since the Bulls traded for the No 7 pick last year at the draft, so they hadn't done workouts with Markkanen. But they selected the Arizona seven footer from Finland.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
It was the anatomy of a shot Monday, a Zach LaVine three pointer with 4.4 seconds left with the Bulls trailing by one point. It missed, and then a desperation steal and potential winner by Ryan Arcidiacono came up short at the buzzer and the Bulls lost 108-107 to the San Antonio Spurs.The Bulls fell to 5-16 and now play Milwaukee, Detroit, Houston and Indiana on the road with injured Lauri Markkanen starting scrimmages and expected to return late on the road trip, perhaps in Indianapolis Dec. 4. The Spurs returned to .500 at 10-10. They got 21 points from DeMar DeRozan and 20 from LaMarcus Aldridge, the veterans combining for 18 fourth quarter points and a run of 10 straight after the Bulls had taken a 101-98 lead with 5:58 remaining.The Bulls were led by LaVine with 28 points, though on 10 of 26 shooting with eight rebounds and a team high seven assists and six turnovers. Arcidiacono had a career high 22 points, including his near miracle save and back to back threes to bring the Bulls within 108-107 with 48.1 seconds left. Jabari Parker added 18 points and 10 rebounds, and Justin Holiday made five of eight threes for his 17 points and now holds the franchise record for most consecutive games making a three point shot.But the court drama of a wonderfully contested game with 15 lead changes and 13 ties was that last LaVine three-point attempt, the Bulls leading scorer waving off a screen from Wendell Carter Jr. to isolate above the top of the three-point line and pull up over DeRozan.The Spurs failed to get the ball inbounds with 3.6 seconds left as Arcidiacono smartly came off his man and cut in front of Aldridge receiving the ball. The ball skipped away from Arcidiacono, hitting Parker in the leg. Arcidiacono picked it up along the right baseline with .04 left. He hurried up a fadeaway shot from about 18 feet that hit the side of the rim and bounced off as the game ended."I felt it was good," said Arcidiacono. "Especially making the last two, I had all the confidence in the world and thought it was going in."It would have been a remarkable ending, though the story for the Bulls of 183 combined field goal attempts was LaVine's last one, the fifth straight that he missed after making four in a row when it seemed like the veteran Spurs might be taking control.Drive to the basket for a potential layup or try to get fouled trailing by one point?Drive and pass the ball with the Spurs ready to collapse on LaVine?Try to split the screen and then pass or finish?Call timeout after retrieving the Bryn Forbes miss with 28.8 seconds left and trailing by one?Take the screen and shoot the mid range after three of four of LaVine's earlier fourth quarter jumpers were in the 20-foot range? After all, the Bulls trailed by just one.They were most of the possibilities in that penultimate sequence. The jury seemed to be leaning toward drive. Though that was hardly an assurance of success given the Bulls were outscored in the paint 56-32."By the way the game was going, I thought I could have made it," LaVine said. "I'm a confident shooter, shot that a lot, made a ton of shots like that. I could have had an opportunity to go to the hoop. I didn't want them to double team me. That's why I called the pick away. I'm going for the win regardless; that's my confidence. The way LaMarcus Aldridge is playing, I'm shooting a three (because he then has time for a two-point winner). If I make it, it's a different result. If I don't, bad shot. I think I can make it and I will make it in the future""I made the shots (earlier) coming off the pick and rolls and then they started blitzing," LaVine explained. "I could of done a different play. But it comes back to square one. If the ball goes in the hoop, it's a totally different result. It's on me. Coach puts the confidence in me to make the right play. I appreciate that. I just have to put the ball in the hoop to get the win."It was the Bulls seventh game decided by three points or fewer, which is tied for league most. It's exceptionally high for a team with just five wins, and the Bulls are a respectable 3-4. Which suggests they've remained mostly competitive despite the significant absences in he lineup."It's hard to continue to talk about how close we are, how close we are, how close we are, but there's only one way we can go and I believe that's up if we continue to play with the same effort," said Holiday. "And then when we get our guys back who knows what can happen."Though the Spurs are perhaps at their low point in talent in the last two decades, they still had a deep enough bench to outscore the Bulls 44-14 among reserves. Again, the four primary Bulls starters with Carter again in foul trouble all played at least 35 minutes, which was more than any Spurs starter. The Bulls rarely enter a game with a reasonable roster match. So they have to push their regulars longer than the opponent. Which makes closing that much more difficult.Still, they were a shot away from victory. So how should Zach have handled this case?"If the ball goes in the hoop, it's a totally different result. It's on me. Coach puts the confidence in me to make the right play. I appreciate that. I just have to put the ball in the hoop to get the win." Zach LaVineBulls coach Fred Hoiberg certainly was going to back his leading scorer."The ball was in our best player's hands who had it going, especially early in the quarter," said Hoiberg. "I thought that he kept us in that game the way he started that quarter. The one thing that I would have liked was the attack (to the basket). I have confidence in Zach; that's why I didn't call the timeout. The Spurs sub to get a defensive lineup out there. So we rolled with the group we had out. The one thing I would have liked to see (was for Zach to) try to split if they were going to try to double team him or get the switch. But I've got confidence in Zach LaVine; he's been great for us all year. Tough ending."It was reasonable of Hoiberg not to call the timeout so the Spurs couldn't go to their defensive lineup. Though Spurs coach Gregg Popovich before the game said his team's defense was so poor he felt pretty much anyone, even aging media members, could score against his team. Popovich said it's the first time in his Spurs coaching career his team was giving up more points than it was scoring.LaVine has proven to be the Bulls' best scorer, and perhaps if Markkanen, Kris Dunn or Bobby Portis were playing the options would have been clearer. The hottest player Monday was Arcidiacono with four of six threes and eight of 12 overall. But he was coming off a scoreless game in Minneapolis and shooting 10 of 33 the last five games in his first sustained play in the NBA. Carter had just missed twice, one a point blank layup from about a foot away. Perhaps Holiday, who may never have been called on for a game winner in his career. Or Parker, who also seemed to be tiring as he played the entire fourth quarter and had missed his last two shots, the last a wide open three.LaVine wasn't about to say, but undoubtedly he was calculating all that. He's a tough shot maker, though perhaps tiring as well as evidenced by missing his previous four. He didn't want to go more quickly to give the Spurs time, and figured the way the Spurs were scoring so easily with 60 percent fourth quarter shooting they'd have about four seconds and would need just a field goal or two free throws to win.And perhaps LaVine had just watched Jimmy Butler for the 76ers take a long, probably ill-advised step back three pointer to win a game Sunday. So LaVine called off the screen. It's called a one/four flat, and it's the offensive set former coach Tom Thibodeau often used for Derrick Rose. Though Rose did drive frequently when he attempted game winners after missing several jump shot attempts early in his career with the Bulls.Arcidiacono coming off that scoreless game in Minnesota started the game looking to shoot, which was unusual for him. And LaVine had his jumper and three pointer finally going. They combined for 15 points in a 27-27 first quarter tie."Threes haven't been going in lately," noted LaVine, who was down to 29.6 percent on the season. "I don't know why. Been in and out or off the front rim; my mid range has felt good. I know I'm a good shooter. You are going to go through stretches where it's up and down. It felt good to have some go in. I think you saw me throw my hands up in the air (making his first three), like, ‘Thank god, one finally went in.'"Holiday continued his excellent three-point shooting in the second quarter as the Spurs led 52-50 at halftime. There were no desolate quarters this time as the Bulls with adept three-point shooting with 14 in the game led 83-80 after three quarters. And then it was a shootout to start the fourth with the Spurs scoring in eight of their first nine possessions while LaVine matched them shot for shot. Until the last shot."It's tough going back on it," LaVine said. "You want to change a lot of things, but we had a chance to win the game. LaMarcus Aldridge did a great job closing out for his team. DeMar DeRozan did the same thing. Just have to make some more shots."The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
Given the Bulls are more or less healthy now, didn't most of us expect and hope they'd be doing a little bit more winning? I know that at this point there's no shot of making the playoffs, so they'd prefer to end up with a bottom five record in terms of the draft, but I'm sure the players on the team still want to win. There are of course mitigating factors like the change in coaches, trading Holiday, etc. But what do you think all this losing means about the status of the rebuild? Is it going to take longer to get back to the playoffs than many hoped? Or do you think maybe this group just needs more time to improve via maturing as players and playing together? Is here a viable core here for a perennial playoff team (I see no sign that there is yet for a championship contender so that's not what I'm asking about)?Cameron WatkinsWould or could Jabari Parker go to the windy city Bulls. If for nothing else but for playing time and showcase. If he plays with the WCB and scores at will, It would at least show that, he's not playing, because of health. And therefore would be valuable to some team limping down the stretch, looking for some points. He would easily be the most talented guy out there that a team could bring in with a double/double game, that they wouldn't have to give up anything but future considerations to get. a player that has the potential to catch fire ala JR Smith.Tom OffaGot to play Jabari, with trade deadline coming up in a few weeks. If another team is considering adding him, they need to "see" what he can now do, especially in all the aspects of his recovery from injury. With the stated "youth movement", although Jabari is still "young", it just does not appear that he would have a significant role with the Bulls unless there were additional injuries to the new starting five-some "core". Depending how Chandler does over the next few weeks, Jabari could be reinstated as the starter at Small Forward. It also makes sense, with the large $ "investment" that the Bulls made for Jabari, that he gets "one more good chance" before this season ends.John IngvoldstadMaybe it was time to move on from Hoiberg, and maybe Boylen was the right choice. Ok. Two months ago we were complaining about poor defense, now we're doing the same with the offense. I suppose it's the volatile nature of being sport fans, and also kind of normal with a rebuilding team. But, there's one thing I really do not understand: why do you have to guarantee Boylen the job for next year too? Maybe he's good, but let him show he deserves the job. It's about accountability, isn't it? Or am I missing something? Also, I've read multiple reports about the fact that ownership doesn't want to pay for three coaches. Yes, three coaches seems too many, and yes, they do what they want with their money, but an average coach costs what, like your 8th or 9th rotational player? You're paying 20 million to a player sitting at the end of the bench.Michele MorandiLawrence JoyWhy doesn't Jim Boylen ever play Wendell Carter Jr and Robin Lopez together? Isn't Carter Jr talented and mobile enough to play PF even though he's list as a center?Tom ChoiI thought the NBA determined years ago that one couldn't get a shot off in less than 0.4 second, and the only way one could score with less time than that was via a tip-in. I recall an exercise involving Trent Tucker of the Knicks, who had one of the quickest releases at the time, in which he shot multiple times on an otherwise empty court so the NBA could time his catch and release. Is my memory correct, or is this just another example of my "remembering" things like my being a halfway decent softball player?Peter MillburgThe optimist in me believes a quick turnaround could be possible.Everyone is talking about the Lakers and Celtics for AD, but am I crazy to believe we could offer the best package come draft night this year? We will most likely have a top 5 pick, Wendell Carter Junior, Lopez's expiring deals and future draft picks to choose from. Heck, we could even take on some bad salary. To me this is equal or better value than any package the Lakers or Celts could do. Well I guess hope dies last.Sven RuppertJimmy Butler a max contract player? Plodding on offense, holds the ball. As he gets older and slower, defense will start to lag as well.John LeichenkoIs Tom Thibodeau still considered an elite coach in the NBA? How hard will it be for him to find another job in the league?Gorav RahejaIs it fair to compare Chandler Hutchison to Nikola Mirotic, who was traded for the rights to draft Hutchison?Cory KadlecWe lost to Indiana but we got our first glimpse of a team with pieces that could work. Lavine acted like the alpha dog dominating early. Lauri backed him up as our no.2. Dunn played the point with those assists but scored some too (perfect game). Then Wendell with a nice almost double double. That's all we need from him. The low down is the SF position which Parker was meant to fill but hasn't. Hutch I just don't see it with him other than some hussle from the bench. Not a starter. Add a Sf who can stretch the floor, hit 3s from a kick out from Lavine or Lauri and also plays some D then this team could be a top 4 in the east. Of course you'd also need Portis as our 6th man, keep Lopez for leadership, keep Blakeney for bench scoring. Hutch and one other solid player on the bench. Then the last spice to the pot, 2 yrs of time. Now lose every game (this year only) at the buzzer and you'll be right for 2020. Here's hoping.Andrew BrownJustin Holiday seemed like a team player and good model of working the hard way into a decent contract, so good luck to him. Getting 2 draft picks, even if they are 2nd rounders, wow, I'll take that even if it may not turn into anything special. But the reason to celebrate is the exit of Cam Payne. I know, not like he was a bad guy so shouldn't be too happy as he is a human being, but wow just not having to watch him play as a Bulls player anymore has me a little excited.Jon KueperI am not sure a small forward are the biggest need for the Bulls the next few years. The reason is that Wendell are struggling mightily against the dominant centers in the league, and despite the 3point era there are a lot of them around. I believe Wendell and Portis would be wreaking havoc coming off the bench as they will rebound very well on the defensive end, and playing indide outside on the offensive end. The Bulls should use their free salary cap to sign Vucevic from Orlando this summer, and use their draft rights for a small forward to compete with Hutchison for a starting place next season.Stian NordvikIf given the option, would you eliminate the 3 point line? Shooting 30% from three nets you more points than 40% from two as well as the low percentage long twos that disgust coaches. With the increased percentage from 3's, I see nothing but what Pop sees when he looks at the stats. Do you think eliminating threes would fix the game, or at least make it a fair situation that decreased make probability as you went out instead of some arbitrary line that adds another point?Clint YouldenKieron SmithZach is shooting .502 on 2-pt. shots and only .353 on 3-pt. shots.When he goes to the rim, he probably shoots about 55%. OK, so on a given possession, Zach's best chance to score points is to take it to the hole (and he is pretty amazing at that). You can understand the coach wanting him not to 'fall in love' with the 3-pt. line, when he's most successful driving. But you also have to consider that a 3 is worth an extra point, so .353 from the arc gets you as many points as .530 an 2-pt. shots. (Zach's effective FG% is currently .510.) We saw what happens when the Bulls shoot 18 three's and the Nets take 46... even though we shot better from the arc (39% to their 35%). These days, you have to make some 3's to stay in the game. But the bottom line is that Zach needs to be able to score, as they say, "from all three areas" to be his most effective. And he needs to find his shots & make those decisions on the court.Art AlenikCan you please explain why Houston traded Michael Carter-Williams to the Bulls, who waived him, instead of waiving him themselves? I know it's probably some rule but it's hard to understand the reasons for that!Carlos NevesLaVine is a finisher. Dunn's game is more complex. Watched him closely vs. Indiana. He's so long! he struggles to just pop the ball out from a stand-still or from a standing dribble. I'm starting to think he doesn't see the game that way. There's times when he just can't hit the target off the dead run which for him really limits him. He shone in the Indiana game in half-court when he got past his first step and had momentum towards his spot on the floor. His eyes are up and he's visibly more relaxed after he gets the initial separation. He was then hitting guys all over the place. Last year you could see that he grasped offensive movement and scheme, he just wasn't delivering a catchable ball. Sometimes that's still true. The question is: what's he gotta do to get to where his delivery matches his awareness? He's a pretty reliable mid-range scorer. He's more of a point-forward/Paul Pressey type distributor as opposed to a Mo Cheeks/Rondo/Stockton set up guy or even a Harden/Steve Nash s/r guy. If I'm a defender, I jam the hell out of his dribble. Dunn doesn't play well in real close spaces out on the perimeter. You've noticed that he's a high-usage guy. The hard part for him about Hoiberg getting the can is that Hoiberg's offense had way more opportunities for Dunn to catch the ball on the move with more space before he's into his dribble which lately seems to be showing as his comfort zone.Pete ZieversThe contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

As for Taj, and I know this all depends on economics, but if it were up to me I’d bring him back on a new contract next season. Of course, it depends
on his market, but he’s only going on 32, hasn’t played all that much in
his career, and is such a valuable player, person, leader, team guy that
his type of player could be more difficult to replace than almost anyone
on the roster. You want people like that around all the time, and not
just we media people because no one is more stand up and engaging on the
entire team. I look around the East at power forward and I don’t see
many better. Probably Love, Millsap, but not by much. Serge Ibaka? I’d
rather have Gibson. The Morris twins? I’m happy with Gibson’s physical
presence. I’d have taken Jabari Parker, but terrible news. Thaddeus
Young? Ersan Ilyasova? Patrick Patterson?This is one of the top three
or four overall power forwards in the East and having one of his best
seasons, growing with his shot and I’m believing he gets it out to
three-point range. If the Bulls go whole turnover, OK, but you don’t
find many like Taj, one of the Bulls great low draft picks ever. If you
are keeping Robin Lopez, and he has a long term deal, I like the way
that tandem plays. Can you do better?I was watching the Knicks and Clippers (dont ask me why) when they swung
to Oakley getting tossed.I have never seen 7 security guards so scared but I also don't think I
have ever seen a more sad sight during a game than watching an absolute
legend getting tossed from an arena during a game.I remember covering the 1999 labor
lockout. Oakley’s first big contract was about to go away if the players
didn’t settle that day. Barkley in the meeting makes a big speech
basically at the end of his career about standing up to the league and
you’ll are cowards and Oakley basically beat him up. I probably wouldn’t
have wanted to settle the debate that way. Remember, that’s the Barkley
who once body slammed Shaq in a game. Oak’s critique of Tim Floyd’s
coaching cost him a $50,000 fine from the Bulls, the only team fine I
can recall for telling the whole truth that accurately. I don’t know
what happened, and the Knicks seem sure they have the independent
witnesses to back up their contentions of Oakley’s erratic behavior, and
maybe to them it was and not to Oak. I just have never known Oakley to
fabricate events even when they made him look bad.A couple years ago, I recall you saying that opportunity and landing
with the right team aren't major factors in an NBA player's success or
failure, that it's talent and determination. I keep wondering about
that. Certainly, for great talents that's probably true, but what about
young guys coming in the league who are talented but not exceptional? Or
anyone getting drafted by Sacramento or some of the other franchises in
organizational dysphoria?I think the main issue for the last 2 seasons is that the Bulls do not
have a clear vision, a clear direction of the team's targets and the way
to reach them. A couple of years ago they maxed out Jimmy making a
statement that the plan is to move from the Rose era to the Jimmy era
which in my opinion was the correct decision. Then they fired Thibodeau
as they believed that he was running out the players and was too much
focused on defense. In my opinion the first part was completely
justified as you can see the careers on Lu, Noah and Rose and others
after all those minutes under Thibs.It's true that only a few Bulls have distinguished themselves, and that
we have a lot of raw young guys.  But I still think you have to decide
on a rotation, or none of those guys can become consistent.  The way
it's going, when they get on the court, they're not used to their
teammates, they don't know their exact roles, and now they're probably
playing 'scared' that if they have a bad stretch, they might not see the
court again for 4 or 5 games.  Nobody develops their game or plays their
best without some consistency.  I understand Fred's dilemma.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

No one is saying Jimmy is LeBron or Westbrook and you can latch on and make a serious run, but you have some pieces, you have cap room—more in 2018—and an ability to compete at a reasonable level. What, you can‘t be Washington, which missed the playoffs last season? Or Boston, who really still doesn’t have a player who you say if only you had him. The Toronto monolith? Whom the Bulls beat 11 straight. Look, this is the first season with this group. That’s not continuity. Last season was about riding it out with Rose, Noah and Gasol. Wade and Rondo were bridge players, and who knows with Rondo the way he’s played. There’s no question he’s the best point guard on the roster and they still don’t have anyone who’s filled that role. Yes, there is free agency. But Rondo does work well with the young players and the style they want to play and has shown he’s a legitimate NBA point guard and a good team guy. There would be worse guys to have. Plus, hey, he can make threes now!Don’t think Fred Hoiberg got to be an NBA player after being recruited to play quarterback at Nebraska because he’s just a go along nice guy. So with the trades of Gibson and McDermott it made sense to trot out the prospects. But with that sort of loss in Boston, uncompetitive, players whining afterward, my guess is it’s just become let them see if they can win for this last month. I assume that’s why Rondo was suddenly back as a starter and the most veteran players left from last October are back playing the most minutes the rest of the way. I hear about this “easy” schedule the Bulls have in April with your Philly and Brooklyn and New York, but that is misleading—as most stats are these days--because often you are better off playing the teams with the best records the last two weeks because they may have their seeding clinched or are having their regular rest vacation days and basically send out their 13th guys. While your Brooklyn players are playing for contracts and will play much harder and tougher without fear of injury because they’ve got five months off coming. The Bulls still may miss the playoffs; my guess is if they do it will be with the best they have the rest of the way. Unless, of course, that changes.Yes, you have much more intimacy in the locker room, practice and travel, but they hear so many voices that you never do as a worker. So quit trying to compare yourself and your experience to that of pro athletes. It’s a different world. It’s like all the goofs who say they can balance their budget, why can’t the government. Hey, have you got a mortgage on your house? Credit cards? That’s deficit spending. Anyway, your life has no parallel to theirs. But there is something about communication with employees I never understand and hear all the time. I always had it when I worked at The Tribune and so did my colleagues. Editors hardly ever spoke to you. Since I had a traveling job, the ethic seemed to be, ‘You’re out there on that big expense account. Why do I have to be nice to you, also? Toughen up!’ We’d have an annual session in which they’d say your work was fine, you’re getting five percent and otherwise it was the occasional how are the Bulls doing. They have jobs, too. Meetings all day, their own superiors to deal with, dozens of staffers under them, some needier than others. There’s just not that much time and it slips through. Especially if you’re not a squeaky wheel, but just a pro.Nothing personal. Same in the NBA. It seems like an easy job, but coaches prepare for hours watching film (it’s really a crap job except for the money and a chance to embarrass the league with days off), and then watch more film and more film, and have a practice, and travel, and when the players have days off they never do. They’re always preparing, looking at past games, next opponents. And so they have to make decisions and do I have to go in every day and say, “Niko, I know your feelings are hurt, but if you had made maybe like two shots and we didn’t lose by 25 points….” Hey, all I see is guys coming out of games and getting pats on the back, fist bumps by coaches, fans telling them nice game (OK, some days not so nice games), but who gets more positive feedback than a pro athlete? You get many free meals? Oh, right, we’re not comparing.If I had an issue with Hoiberg on communication it would be more with accountability, of not putting guys on the bench when they are not getting back on defense or standing around with the ball or blowing off plays. I’m sure Fred does some of that, but he’s by nature not confrontational. Really, neither is Steve Kerr. Or Tyronn Lue. Scott Brooks isn’t and neither is Mike D’Antoni. They have some more pretty good players, however. There’s a line there, too. I personally wouldn’t be a screamer and probably would be more like Fred and ask them to take responsibility for their team, that I’d give them the freedom to make decision on the court, be adults. But many are kids, or have had kid-like lives as pampered athletes and need to be reassured along with the occasional kick in the pants and you need to know which ones are better with the kick than the pat. And then if the ball goes through the basket, as you note, you look like a much better communicator and tougher in demanding action. Like Johnny Kerr joked, “There’s five guys out there running around with my paycheck.”I don’t blame him a bit, and that’s the tough part with having great superstar players past their prime: It’s tough for them not being who they were. So they take up the minutes and shots, and naturally not the results. See: Kobe Bryant, Michael Jordan. They don’t leave the game early anymore like they did when Oscar, Russell and Wilt played. But Wade has been much more realistic and transparent than most. He has said money will play a big part of his decision, and the way this season has gone, and with the way Miami has come on without him and now with the injury and likely not playing again this season, there’s probably no way he gets a big contract anywhere near what he has with the Bulls this season. After all, everyone remembers what they last saw.The Bulls didn’t exactly sign him to be a title team and he never promised such. The Bulls figured less selling tickets (they were sold, already) than signing a respected veteran free agent short term as they go through a transition. It’s been good for Jimmy Butler and helped him become a much better player and leader. Wade wanted the financial “respect” he said Miami declined to give him. Disrespected? Look, all workers believe they deserve respect for what they contributed in better years. Generally only in sports are they rewarded. For Wade, it had to be elsewhere, but he’s also been a social positive for the Chicago community. I expect to see him one more season with the Bulls before each goes its own direction.Mirotic needed a little more hand holding, I believe, than the Bulls gave him. It wasn’t a good situation for he or Hoiberg because Hoiberg had a roster filled with new guys to work in and figure out and Wade was a lot more needy than you’d think coming from Miami and wanting to exert himself but with guys who didn’t know him. So I think Mirotic fell between the cracks and the veterans began to lose some patience with him and I think everything affected him. I expect to see a big finish from him as it was ironic that Wade apparently went to Hoiberg after that Boston loss and said the team needed Mirotic more and apparently told the same to Mirotic, which clearly lifted his spirits and confidence.The veterans also were closer to Taj, and obviously wanted to see him start in his contract year, so that probably worked against Mirotic, too. And remember, Mirotic missed much of the second part of last season with the appendix and complications, so it’s not like he had a full season coming in. I wouldn’t give up on him too quickly, though I have to admit I liked Cutler and thought the Bears mishandled him with all the coaching changes. Some players need stability more than others.His team won. It doesn’t matter how they got there; they succeeded. I’m not one who judges from behind, but to keep bringing this lunacy up about he shouldn’t have taken some putcher out (I, yes, was watching NBA games by then) and shouldn’t have left some guy in, yeah, they won, but. Are they nuts! Lesson to coaches and gms: If the guy who won it all is second guessed for the way he did so, how do you not expect to be second guessed for not succeeding? How many negatives was that? See, that’s what gms and coaches miss. Those people are paid critics. It means to criticize; not analyze. It doesn’t matter what you do; they’re going to find fault.So do what you think is best and the heck with everyone else. Maddon’s case should be the example to all. Did I digress again? I prefer writing about a team in the playoffs, so I’m not looking to the post season yet. I say give the Greek alphabet guys, or what’s left of them, a chance to show what they have and said they could do if not burdened with kindergarten classes and if they have enough to get there. They certainly have a chance even if they haven’t played well lately. Yes, Miami has played great. How, I’m not quite sure. Though I hear Spoelstra is a much better coach now than when he was 11-30.Consider who got some of the top contracts last summer, other than guys who were staying home, like Mike Conley, DeMar DeRozan, Bradley Beal, Nic Batum, Andre Drummond and Hassan Whiteside, the latter whose $100 million deal basically chased Wade out of Miami. Then there were the “big” names who moved, like Evan Turner (4 years, $70 mil), Joakim Noah (4 years, 72 mil), Timofey Mozgov (4 years, $64 mil), Luol Deng (4 years, $72 mil), Bismack Biyombo (4 years, $72 mil), Ian Mahimni (4 years, $64 mil), Dwight Howard (3 years, $70 million), Tyler Johnson (4 years, $50 mil). And guys like Kent Bazemore ($70 mil), Allen Crabbe ($64 mil), Marvin Williams ($54 mil), Jordan Clarkson ($50 mil).Andrew Nicholson got $26 million for four years. Not huge, but who is he? Austin Rivers got an average of about $12 million, Jared Dudley $10 million. There have been some deals that have worked, like Dion Waiters for $6 million. Eric Gordon at $53 million was a risk with injury, but has worked with the unique Rockets team as has Ryan Anderson. Al Horford got $113 million. He’s been good, but hardly an anchor. Harrison Barnes got $95 million and four years. Nice pickup, but not moving the needle. Eventually, the Bulls will have to pay, also. But for this season it didn’t seem like a good time to load up and erase your cap flexibility moving forward with the long term deals the players were signing last summer.Since when did Gregg Popovich and Steve Kerr become more powerful league authorities than the commissioner? Say the Warriors’ franchise was suspended for the next two years. Would the NBA go out of business? Lose TV viewers? Change in any way? No. If guys are tired, they can retire or take an unpaid leave. How about skipping your salary those days? Plenty of workers don’t get paid when they don’t work. Then the league can use the money to give ticket refunds. This has become an epidemic the NBA needs to treat seriously.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

There is some precedent this season for coming off the bench after an injury since Pau Gasol has done that with the Spurs and he’s probably a higher level player overall. Of course, the Spurs were working on a 50-plus win season and the Bulls were trying for 40, so it’s not like Wade would break up vital chemistry. But it does begin to make some sense the way Rondo played with Butler to have Wade in sort of that Manu Ginobili role, which is substantial, but lends a stability and vital scoring option to the second unit where Wade could be more in control and more of a leader. It’s kept Ginobili as an elite star. Same with Andre Iguodala, whose reputation was enhanced coming off the bench.I don’t see why it would be an insult to Wade and, frankly, Wade has had a career of making sacrifices for the team. He probably was most instrumental in recruiting LeBron James to Miami when he had to know he’d then have to begin deferring to James despite Wade having been the face of the franchise. Very few players ever have done that. He might need to start depending on personnel and injuries, but I could see him saying it was better for the team for now to come off the bench.It’s tough to see anyone in that top four a good opponent for the Bulls other than the Raptors. Toronto is likely still so stunned by the Bulls winning streak they recently stopped in overtime that the Bulls might actually have an edge. But with almost an entire roster not having played in the playoffs and Wade probably just returning, just getting there will likely have been enough for the season, give the young guys a taste and see who stands up. That also could make some of the off season decisions clearer.Whiteside hasn’t yet been an All-Star, but he could and should be, leading the NBA in rebounding, third in blocks, an all-defensive team player. And those are the two most important positions. Plus, James Johnson has turned himself with training and weight loss, finally, into the player the Bulls saw with a high draft pick and though injured now, Miami got a great season from a top five pick, Dion Waiters. Wayne Ellington is a nice shooter to have around. They’re not great, but they look like a .500 team, or a bit more. So have the Bulls been. Preseason Las Vegas had the Bulls 38 on over/under wins and Miami 36.So Miami is a few above; the Bulls are a few above as well. So, yes, Miami had a great run, but they’ve had essentially the same season as the Bulls. And with what many regard as a higher level roster with stars in Dragic and Whiteside. The Bulls don’t have that second high level support player, and remember, Miami let Wade go to play the guys they had. Wade’s done some good things for the Bulls, but you’d be hard pressed to suggest he’d made the mark of someone like Whiteside as a supporting guy to your main star. Plus, Miami has had much less disruption on its roster. Sure, they’ve had injuries like Winslow and, of course, Bosh, though they never counted on him this season. While the Bulls with the breakup of the roster last season now have 10 new players on the roster and a priority, at least until recently, to see some of those players in extended minutes to make decisions. Plus, the team traded two of its top six players in midseason. I’m not voting Hoiberg coach of the year. But I don’t see how his coaching season has been substantially different from Spoelstra’s, for example.Doug hardly has played, averaging about six points since the trade, though it is tough to work in new guys with an established team. It was worth it to take a look at Payne, and you really can’t get a fair look at a point guard halfway through the season. He was a lottery pick who wasn’t playing behind a guy who never goes out of the game. Again, worth a look. And Taj wasn’t being resigned. Like last season, the Bulls were criticized for not getting something for Gasol when they knew he wasn’t coming back. You don’t get much for rentals. Holiday averages five points and shoots 34 percent on threes. Again, Grant as a college guy we all liked was worth the look and has shown some positive flashes, like against the 76ers Thursday.Too many of these guys haven’t played that much, or actually been allowed to play on the court with much of the season was overloaded with guys who hold the ball more for their shots. Grant looks better to me that Holiday as far as upside. Actually, even if deals don’t work, I like them. Fans often say the Bulls aren’t aggressive enough. The point is if you are aggressive you are going to have flops; everyone does. Jerry West many times. But when you do the point is you try to move on and do something else. The Bulls moved on with players who weren’t going to be with them or make a difference. The market isn’t great for those guys, so you have to take a risk and hope you come up with a big catch. Often it takes a lot of patience and false alarms. But the point is to do something.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

You say Jimmy is an All-Star and probably all-NBA. True. The draft, especially this one with the point guards, gets oversold as teams begin to believe you may be giving up the next LeBron. Teams never want to take that risk even though it’s not true. But maybe the next Westbrook or Harden. So I do see a similar Bulls roster next season, but thinned out and more efficient. I see Valentine more in a shooting guard role given his ability to handle the ball and run offense, at least in theory since we never saw that this season. Understandably, he really never got a chance. But he also never really tried. He’ll have to also be more aggressive. He played too passively, accepting the shooting role rather than trying to show he could make plays. Zipser did that better with less expected. I see Wade actually being comfortable in any role the team asks as it could be his final NBA season. Though I could see a Kobe farewell season in Miami. Unless they pull off a free agency miracle, Miami still is going to need to sell tickets in arguably the toughest place to in the NBA. After all, who really wants to be inside in the winter there?I've been told I am loyal and would like good things to happen to our former guys. I don't see this happening, but could a move to the Spurs be a good one for Rose? If he were to take a contract that is lighter now that they need a point guard and he wants to win could it be done? I know they want Mills with the injury issues so eventually, they will have lots of players if all healthy. I just think if a healthy backcourt and Rose buys into that system they could be a huge winner and he would see success as part of the team's success.They say they want to keep Lowry, but he’s been hurt just about every playoffs and is looking for huge money at 31. I expect he moves on. I can see them keeping Ibaka after giving up a lot for him at trade deadline, though he’s remained enamored with being a jump shooter. We all thought they made nice moves at the trade deadline with P.J. Tucker as well, but now have a load of free agents wanting to be paid and facing being well into the luxury tax where they could be paying $3 for every $1 over. The Canadian dollar is not that strong. They’ve been a 50-plus win team. Sure, they can’t beat the Cavs. But no one looks like they can in the East. I’m for continuing to take a shot until you cannot.Free agents don’t much yearn for Canada, though more and more Americans have been talking about moving there these last several months. And you better be horrible and extremely lucky to get in the draft. That’s long odds. I’d guess they try to keep Ibaka, move on from Lowry, play more with their big man, Valunciunas, and hope LeBron decides to close his career in L.A. for his love of Magic. Though there’s always an exception because even with that fix can you see them seriously competing with the Cavs? Can you get Canadian Andrew Wiggins from the Timberwolves? Would Minnesota take DeRozan? That would be the kind of rebuild you could see local fans going for, and that would give Minnesota a skilled veteran scorer to make a move for the playoffs next season.Griffin with his injuries isn’t quite the player he was; Anthony would provide the extra offense they need as they tend to bog down into scoring droughts too often. And perhaps it would get Paul to stop dribbling around so much. Maybe the Knicks take that, but I can see them maybe holding out for DeAndre Jordan. After all, what does he really add to the Clippers in the West? The Rockets got rid of Dwight Howard and got better; the Jazz was best in the playoffs with Gobert off the floor. A big man better score frequently in the West, and Jordan isn’t that kind of guy or worth $20 million plus to sit the end of games because he can’t make a free throw. I’d get a utility big man if I were the Clippers. After all, the Warriors don’t even have one and then give it a shot with Anthony’s scoring. He still can do that, and playing with Paul he’d finally defer like he hasn’t since playing with Chauncey Billups. After all, this is a Clippers team that hasn’t been past the second round the way they are. Could it get worse?It’s interesting that all these mock drafts pretty much have the Bulls taking a big man. I think that’s because they begin to fall. Most young big men are projects, and that’s usually not a Bulls priority, especially with big men taking longer to develop. It seems to me the Bulls most need shooting, athleticism and playmaking, though perhaps there aren’t enough players of that talent there. I actually like what the Bears did. Assuming, of course, they are right. Teams too often get caught up in taking the guy slotted by talent. If you like a guy 16 and everyone has him 26 or 36, who cares. Let the TV guys yell about how it was a bad pick. Usually they’re on TV because they could not do the job. Find a guy you like who fits with you team and stand by him.A few words here about that Spurs/Rockets Game 5. We saw all the stuff fans complained about with the Bulls. It goes on all the time with many teams. James Harden was walking the ball up court constantly, basically refusing to push the ball, walking into the same high screen. The Spurs, even without Tony Parker and Kawhi Leonard, simply were the aggressors. They played harder despite having way less talent on the floor. The Rockets ran basically the same play every time and the Spurs with guys you thought were in the league—or in the case of Ginobili, long retired—just tried harder. So Harden threw the ball all over the place after wasting 10 seconds strolling into the front court. You could hear Rondo screaming, “Run.” Yes, even in the semifinals in a crucial game with an MVP contender and the likely coach of the year. You can lead them to water. But they have to decide whether they want to drink or not. As for Game 6, maybe he began dating a member of the Kardashian family again. Too bad to close that way after such a great season and finishing second in the MVP voting.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
JR, never change my friend, never change Mike SuteraI have no doubt that LeBron will be the most valuable player to either team in the Finals. What's the chance he could be picked MVP if the Cavs lose?  Ever been done before?Al AlenicoI think (Boston) fell in love with the arc and expected them to start falling again ‘any minute now'.  They should have won the game, and they might have, with a better plan. Should have run the offense through Horford.  He was doing fine in the post & he's a good passer; would have opened things up for their shooters as well. Stevens is young.  I still think he's a good coach, but he'll need to learn from this one.  Great game by LeBron, but Boston might have overcome that by going to the hoop.Art AlenikNow that the Rockets are out after having gone through a remarkable regular season what changes do you see coming to the Rockets?  It seems like they have these all-stars in Harden and Paul and then overpriced pieces that somewhat don't fit in on that team such as Eric Gordon, Ryan Anderson, and Trevor Ariza. Last season's draft...it was the Bulls' Butler on the move north to Minneapolis. 
Do you see any potential All-Stars headed for a lottery team on draft day ? 
Kemba Walker? John Wall? Andre Drummond? Carmelo Anthony? DeMar DeRozan? 
And ESPN had a mock draft live on TV". I almost feel as it the top 5 are set in stone however I do think that there will be some interest in having Memphis (4) deal the pick and that's something that ESPN has also rumored. Tom PlonowskiOn another question, I agree we'll hear a lot of those names at draft time. I assume the Suns, Kings and Hawks go with picks since they have nowhere to go. Memphis is the one at 4 because of the return of Gasol and Conley. I believe Toronto would want a player; same as Washington, though I can see Beal a more likely trade possibility. The Pistons and Hornets with new managements could start over, so Drummond or Walker are more likely. The Spurs with Kawhi also remain a great curiosity.Last week I had Jackson Jr. to the Bulls, but I did say I could be changing weekly. If all three bigs are off the board, I think I would be more likely to select Young than the Bulls. I can see Young in a three-man guard rotation with Dunn and LaVine; perhaps not great defensively, but with all three able to make plays with the ball, shoot (as Dunn improves) and share the 96 minutes reasonably well. Sorry, Cam. Young isn't Steph Curry because no one is, but he has the chance to be a high scoring impact player. I know he had trouble late in the season, but the NBA can't do the box and one on him like they did in college. If it went that way, I think the Bulls might take a chance on Porter. I saw that mock draft list ESPN did, and they had Porter 15. He'd have to come to his workouts in traction to go at 15, I'd say. I still assume Porter moves into the top 5, and if he does a  big will be there for the Bulls. If there isn't and Porter red flags on health, then I'd say the wing man from Villanova, Bridges. Again, subject to change.So another finals loss for LBJ. MJ will be happy. For the LBJ era in Cleveland all it resulted in was one title. Kinda disappointing. Bob DingJordan Bell? Yeah, i would do that deal all over again, a guy who just stands there on offense afraid to do anything. And how about that Celtics game? Nate Robinson, oops. Rozier, killing them. So keep Smart?  I'd draft Brunson. They have a lot of questions regarding the PG spot. Would keep Rozier as backup to Kyrie and let Smart walk and draft a pg and groom him to be the eventual backup. Kyries knees the biggest issue. Maybe sign Rose on the cheap?Bob SuterJust read your article on the three big men (Wendell Carter, Jackson & Bamba ). All three of the players seem to be a nice fit for the Bulls which leads me to my question. If you were the GM, If all three players happen to be available when the Bulls select at 7th, Which would you choose ?Randall SandersSo... Mikal Bridges... is he better than Tony Snell?  Rodney Hood?  I
worry that he is Tony Snell, Part 2.  Tell me I'm wrong please! would you go one of the PG over Bamba? Cant figure out Bambas fit as a "modern center".Joshua LevinI totally agree with Toronto over the firing of the coach. Here the Raptors were the #1 seed heading into the playoffs, and in none of their games did they offer up a challenge to Cleveland.Kieron SmithDo you think that the breakout of Joel Embiid and the threat of what may come will cause teams in the east to go after a player like Mo Bamba?  Will they look at him as a must have to matchup with him for years to come or is it still a wing dominated league? Steve SchnakenbergBob QueenHow do you think Pistol would perform under modern rules? Three point line and no hand checking.Adnaan HamidWhat are your thoughts on the Bulls signing Donte Ingram post draft to the Windy City Bulls as a 2-way player? After watching Loyola's magical run he hit the big 3 to beat the Miami Hurricanes. He has a 41 percent 3-point average and looks like an Nba player at 6"6.  I doubt he gets drafted but could see him as a real diamond in the rough. In the potential mold of a Nwaba/Blakeney. Ryan CarpelThe contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

Wow Bulls lost (two). I thought they'd play harder than that. I think they need more spark.Ryan CarpelYou can stagger rotations and it will help to have Denzel Valentine back after his sprained ankle heals. Even though he is a rookie, he seems to have good defensive instincts. But if Gibson were to start at power forward, would that make Portis backup center? Felicio? I think ideally the staff was hoping Mirotic would be ready to break out as a forward shooter, and he still could. Though he’s had a tough two of 14 start, he did play all summer for Spain and it could be catching up to him with also a tough training camp with lots of sessions and no days off yet.Spencer Dinwiddie has been effective in both games as the team still seeks a backup point guard, though Dinwiddie is more a scoring point guard. Valentine will be back for the regular season opener and will get time handling the offense as well as Butler and Wade, the latter who will be in the middle of pick and roll offense. Wade and Rondo seem like they could be the best combination of distributing guards the Bulls have had in years. The wins and losses don’t much matter now as much as the individual progress. And for now, Wade and Butler haven’t played much. Just warming up. The engine doesn’t need that spark plug to ignite quite yet.That was a fun game last night to watch, wasn't it?  Good or bad, these Bulls could at least present a very entertaining team to watch.William KochneffCan the Bulls afford to keep Lopez/Gibson together? As defensive as those two are, the Bulls would be dumb to separate them (after all, you can't expect miracle blocks from Doug McDermott this season if he plays power).Kieron SmithPlus, I like the look of a defensive team to start games and provide some early stability. Winning that first quarter, as Doug Collins always notes on TV, is worth more in the long run than you think. And like the saying goes, five guys can play defense. Also, with a new team it’s easier to develop defensive coordination than offensive coordination. That’s why you see the USA Olympic teams more defensive oriented. It takes too long to put in an offense with new players, and the Bulls have eight. Those championship Bulls of the 1990s will tell you they most often worked on offense. Offense is where things slip first for teams. The offensive coordination is much more difficult to develop. It’s not just about shots made or missed. Plus, after so many years of sacrificing for players like Boozer or Pau, Taj in his contract year deserves the chance to start. I hope he gets it.I know the Bulls won't, but if for some reason Noel became available for the right price, would the Bulls pursue? In a perfect world, we could let go of Mirotic/Pick for Noel.Mario PersicoIf Bosh manages to get an "all clear" medically, what are the chances of the Bulls landing him? We wouldn't have to pay much because he would sort of lose that leverage.  He already is paid out from Miami contract, so money seemingly wouldn't be an issue. He wants to play again, but likely not for a non contender. I can only see him playing with James or Wade. What do you think is in his future?Marcus AndersonLook, he still was a terrific player. Miami likely won’t do better than him in any free agent market. They’re, to me, hardly pushing him away. But this is literally life and death. I recall Reggie Lewis finding a doctor to say he could play, and later he collapsed on the court and died. I don’t see how any team can take than chance when Bosh has gone through two years of this with Miami. It seems likely Bosh can live a normal and productive life and has had an exceptional NBA career with multiple titles. He wants to play and I fully understand, and surely a team would get an All-Star caliber player (maybe after basically missing two years) cheaply. But how could you run a team wondering every time he fell if it was for good, and how could you allow yourself to put him in that position? Magic Johnson had to retire after a similar 13 years, though he returned briefly. It’s unfortunate for Bosh since he still can be a productive player, but I don’t see any team willing to take the risk for him and the team.I was just blown away by Derrick Rose saying he was more excited this season in New York then he has been for years! What the ****! After all the money and fame Chicago gave him, and it being his hometown, how could he not of been more excited than to serve his own! I have never been a fan of New York and I am glad that he's there now! Don't wish him any bad but can't wish him any good either.Rex DotyAnd, by the way, what player—or employee—have you ever heard going to a new team or job and saying how much better the last one was and how much better you were treated there. Even when Rose tries to make a politically correct statement, he’s condemned. Can’t win, and all that. The fact is Rose served Chicago well and better than most. His play gave the team its most hope for ultimate success since the Jordan years and he holds the record for the largest charity donation from a Chicago athlete ever. He was injured, yes repeatedly, while playing for the team and never blamed anyone even when he suffered a career changing arc playing in the 40th minute of a game after he’d been out with various lower body injuries for most of the last month. It often came down to people not liking something he said. OK, he wasn’t the most articulate, but since when does a lack of ideal expression deserve such condemnation?He didn’t always play as hard as some would like his last few years with the Bulls? Perhaps, but this also was someone facing the end of his playing career with three knee operations. He wasn’t the kind to say much, but I suspect he was scared to death. Money doesn’t buy happiness, as the expression goes, and it doesn’t replace what not only you were born to do but the only thing you basically did. It just seemed to me he was trying to get healthy enough to guarantee some sort of career and sports life. Hey, but he didn’t dive for that loose ball in Detroit! Remember, this was the guy who in trying to carry a previously non playoff team was doing things few players would attempt. He took severe falls trying to dunk over Dwight Howard. He took basketball risks that made teammates flinch for his future. He could not anymore after three operations as he came to realize better safe than sorry he doesn’t have a career. All athletes—and workers—find little sympathy or interest from anyone once they’re gone. His plan wasn’t the formula for enough success for the Bulls, so they traded him. No problem there. The team has to pursue its best interests. Rose won’t play in Chicago again and given his inclinations over the years likely won’t be in Chicago much anymore. He’s moved on, like many before him, from Michael Jordan going to Washington to Charles Barkley to several cities to Kareem, Wilt, Oscar and many others. Kevin Durant, to name one lately.When Rose was in Chicago, it seemed to me he gave everything he had for as long as he could. I hope he does well and I hope he and Joakim Noah are welcomed back next month like the community icons they were for so long. Not everyone can hold the trophy. And then everyone can move forward, hopefully without much indignation or resentment. For what Rose and Noah gave Chicago for almost a decade, they deserve to be praised and appreciated.Speaking of Rondo… He’ll be quite a change from Derrick Rose.  Rose has talent, but he’s never had the point-guard skills or court-sense I associate with the great ones.  Rondo is nowhere near the athlete that Rose is, but he sees the court and finds the open man and is usually the smartest player on the floor.  That’s what a point-guard should be.  I also think I understand Rondo’s reputation.  It’s not authority that he can’t deal with, it’s authoritarians.  I think he’ll do whatever you want, as long as you can make him see it’s a smart move.  I’m a lot like that, and some folks find me ‘difficult’ too.Overall, I’m excited that we’re starting something new.  I miss Noah already, but I have to admit I’m relieved to be rid of Rose’s baggage. No ill feelings toward Derrick, but I’m happier to have the guy who led the league in assists.Art AlenikThough I do agree with the assessment of Rondo. He probably, overall, has been the team’s best player the first two preseason games even with a high turnover count. As Butler and Wade indicated, you have to be alert all the time with Rondo passing the ball. And good for him starting to get back his reputation, even if he’s not going to be much fun to talk to as he mostly prefers the Belichick short answer method in interviews. Like with Belichick, there’s much more there if he lets you in. But they don’t have much time or patience with the current media form.  I’ve always seen Rondo as a bit resentful of authority. That’s not an unusual trait. I believe I’ve had my moments as well. “What do you mean your changing that lead!” As I’ve written, I think he works well with Hoiberg because Fred is confident and unlike many NBA coaches, not insecure about who he is. Too many NBA coaches—and people running many businesses—resent that you may know more than they do. And someone will find out.Fred welcomes your confidence because he is about the team, and Rondo should be a good fit. But I wouldn’t compare him with Rose as much as in Bulls history Guy Rodgers and Norm Van Lier. The Bulls really haven’t had many real point guards since then. They won six titles without any. Rondo could become the first Bull to win a league assist title (Norm led the league with the Royals). But Rondo may need to score more with this Bulls team lacking the sort of big time scorers he played with in Sacramento (Cousins) and Boston (three). That he can do so without an outside shot only has made him a more unique talent. He looks fully recovered from both his knee surgery and Dallas. He may be the most versatile player on the team, and the Bulls may need him to be. There’s still some defensive deficiencies as he tends to watch a bit too much on those switches. And it doesn’t look quite yet that everyone else is up to running with him, which also was an issue the Bulls had with Rose. Maybe Rose didn’t look to pass as much—neither does Russell Westbrook and he’s pretty good to have—but Rose could push the ball and often didn’t have much company on the wings. And he was the league Most Valuable Player. Let’s not forget there was only one other player in franchise history so designated by the NBA. And the Bulls did get to the conference finals then. It was time for everyone to move on. Let’s do Nov. 4 in the United Center and then enough.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
Your Pelicans game report certainly sums up your positive view of Carter. I'm happy to enthusiastically agree. It's still very early but he probably would go several slots higher in a redraft and, as you noted, could even be in the rookie of the year conversation. It will be interesting to see how the bigs play together when Laurie and Bobbie return and how Dunn adjusts and hopefully evolves.John PetersenI was wondering why Robin has been so left out. There is no way anyone has played so strongly that you couldn't give this guy a reason to take a shower. He is good for at least a couple of minutes. Will we continue to play roulette until Dunn gets back. It seems to me that though he has the least "talent/size", Arch is the best point we have to run Fred's system. The worst thing he does is hesitate when he has his shot, don't you think that will come with the more time he gets?Tom OffaWhy does Hoiberg keep starting Cameron Payne when we all know if he really isn't a point guard? It's very clear that Ryan Arcidiacono is not only a better at running a team but a natural PG. Tom Choi
Arcidiacono has started to take his shot a bit more. He is a committed defender, a really hard worker without telling you about it—coaches said at Windy City last year he was in the gym day and night every day—and good running a team. Speed limits him, which is why he didn't make the draft cut. But he actually worries about setting up teammates, moving and passing, which is not a general concern with the lineups the Bulls have had to play lately. Sometimes it's OK, like with Blakeney. He's in there to shoot. If he's missing, he comes out. It's OK. Though I do expect to see Shaquille Harrison some as with the additions of Harrison and Tyler Ulis it seems apparent that the backup point guard position remains a chorus line type audition. Lots of high kickers coming through. Just waiting for someone to distinguish himself.
Left from the class of '01:Parker, Pau, Zbo and Tyson. I was never the biggest Chandler fan given I was a kid when he was drafted and I was so excited for him to become the next KG based on all the hype during that draft and offseason. Given his rough go in Chicago due to his young age and the bad roster he carved out one hell of a career. A key factor in an unlikely Championship team in 2011 to a defensive player of the year award. Happy for the guy. But what's going on there? Is LeBron gunning for Luke Walton?Mike SuteraThe Bulls were in too much of a hurry then to wait, and that was understandable with those disastrous post-championship seasons. Tyson was great, but a great role player. When he finally got cast in the correct part, he was able to excel. Often that takes longer than teams would like. Oh, yeah the Lakers. Don't blame LeBron this time. It looks like he picked his final destination and has plenty going and understands his legacy is way beyond the next Finals. This is all Magic, though general managers meet with their coaches a lot. Magic is impatient, as many former players-as-GMs are, and he was as a player. Remember, he asked for a trade in his third season because he didn't like coach Paul Westhead's offense. Westhead, of course, was fired (sadly for the Bulls to become their coach) and broadcaster Pat Riley became the Lakers coach. See Jimmy, it's not new. Magic wasn't too popular for awhile afterward and was well down in the All-Star voting that season even though he was the West's best guard. Magic recovered. Though when he left playing after his HIV diagnosis and returned eventually to coach he gave that up pretty quickly, also. Magic's got a lot going on in his life. Now, Magic's on the hook for the Lakers future. He got LeBron, which was huge, but he messed up by letting Paul George go to Oklahoma City. He could have made the trade with Indiana, but chose to save young players and wait. Oops. Now we'll see if Toronto can persuade Kawhi Leonard as well. So Magic needs to land someone really good to join LeBron. Is Jimmy Butler enough? He may have to be. So Magic likely is a little anxious about presenting a better product for recruitment. Remember, he said if he didn't get it to work quickly he'd leave. Luke's on Magic time now.I think Hutchison is developing nicely. He really moves well on the dribble, snaking his way to the rim. And he defends. Best snapshot the other night was him ripping a board away from some Knick. He's going to be a good one – maybe our starting SF in a year or two. And I would like every Bulls fan who complained about Zach LaVine's contract to take a look in the mirror. Imagine if the Bulls had agreed and let Zach go to Sacramento? How would you feel reading those box scores? You'd be screaming that the Bulls blew it again and calling for Pax's head. Instead, we have a future All-Star to build around. So before your next rant against the front office, take a step back and realize what a terrible mistake you'd have made given the chance. Zach does have the talent and the attitude to become an All-Star, or even a 'franchise player'. And I love the fact that he always mentions his own mistakes. You can tell he's focused on perfecting his game.Art AlenikIn my opinion, a good coach makes adjustments defensively and offensively within and between games to optimize the team's chance of winning. Players that don't play sufficient defense, turn the ball over repeatedly, and don't hustle or pass the ball deserve to be benched in my opinion while giving others a chance such as Shaquille Harrison. Also who coaches the defense on this team? I am not happy with the defensive coaching since Thibs left (at least he knew how to coach defense even if he was clueless about offense). Ashok Nagella
Thibs had four role type players who became all-NBA defensive players with a Defensive Player of the Year. He had Noah, Deng, Hinrich and Butler. And physical, defensive reserves like Kurt Thomas, Taj Gibson and Ronnie Brewer. Heck, you could have picked two league all-defense teams just from that roster. It's like getting the rock in the shape of The Thinker and being asked to put in the eyes. Johnny Bach was the great defensive assistant for the champion Bulls. When he was head coach of the Golden State Warriors in the 80s, they were one of the league's worst defensive teams. Because his star was Joe Barry Carroll, known as JBC whom many said meant Just Barely Cares. Then it became a small shooting team with gunners like Purvis Short and Sleepy Floyd. It was much easier to have a good defense when he coached Jordan, Pippen, Grant and Bill Cartwright.
I'll take some Jabari hate back: watching him is about as enjoyable as watching Wade in his Bulls year (that means "not enjoyable at all"), but he is giving the team offense and some rebounds when we're missing our top two PF's. He's not the problem. There, I said it. Having said that, I can't imagine Fred wanting to play him when Portis and Markannen return.Alejandro Yegros
It actually sounds better on paper since while we weren't looking there are some really big and really good centers around, like Embiid, Jokic, Drummond. Heck, even Steven Adams, Whiteside, Kanter. So the Bulls are not going to be able to play smaller/thinner players like Portis and Markkanen at center that much. Perhaps Lopez plays more than we all thought. Maybe they need Felicio more? Though I seem to be contradicting my own argument as I go through this. John Paxson said in a radio interview when the season began that Parker's conditioning needed some conditioning, and Parker now seems to be moving better. He has a nice shooting touch and is pretty good inside, especially with mismatches. He's going to walk into scoring double figures every game. It's not something the Bulls can easily dismiss. I think the Bulls will experiment with some of those smaller lineups trying to get teams to match down to them. It seems to work for the Warriors. Size is not dead in the NBA, but skill remains transcendent. Having too many players who can produce is not one of the Bulls main problems.
Kris Dunn remains a what if. What if the Bulls brought Derrick Rose back next year? All of this is contingent on him continuing his current pace. Why you may ask? Yeah, the backcourt defense would be awful but no one is playing defense in the NBA anyway. He could potentially recruit Kevin Durant. If I remember correctly, they are friends and former summer workout partners. Older DRose probably now realizes the importance of recruiting. Plus no NBA team wins a "ship" without a two five player. It's not like to Bulls are above such a move. They brought back Scottie Pippen after torching management and he's an ambassador now. Jerrold WashingtonEven though the record doesn't show it, I actually believe the Bulls are going to be very good in the future. The thought of having a lineup of Carter Jr., Markennen, Hutchinson, Lavine, Dunn could be very good defensively in spite of Lavine. I actually think the bulls should look to trades to gain more draft assets. Parker could be a valuable piece at the trade deadline to flip for a 1st rounder. Jabari Parker+Justin Holiday to Memphis for Chandler Parsons + unprotected 2019 1st round pick Robin Lopez + Bobby Portis + Cameron Payne to Phoenix Suns for Ryan Anderson + 2019 unprotected 1st round pick.When was the last time the bulls enticed an A+ free agent to come to Chicago. The reality is they don't, so the bulls should be looking to use their cap space to take on salaries to gain more draft capital in what could be a deep draft. The move also frees up playing time for players that will be apart of the future. I'd like to keep Portis but I'd trade in a heart beat if it meant gaining a potential lottery pick in this year's draft. Rocky RosadoWe have reached the blossoming of Chicago basketball. The seeds were planted via the Butler trade. Beautiful plants are growing.  Wendell Carter Jr.'s development, unmistakable glimmers of excellence from Chandler Hutchison combine with sparks from Blakeney and Arcidiacono and waiting in the wings are Dunn, Valentine, Portis and Markkannen. Throw in the star power of LaVine and voila, you can envision a future contender.  The threats to the garden are real. Injuries, lack of growth, bad trades, bad lack of trades, bad chemistry, etc. But for now, I can envision beauty. The question is how do you keep the garden growing. Too many plants can stunt growth. It is early in the season, and after we get our injured players back should we ask if Jabari Parker needs to be weeded out to allow others to grow? I want to like Parker and want him to succeed. You can see he has talent. So much young talent and what to do?   Bruce RobertsThe contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

Is it just me or does this year's team look similar to Championship  Bulls Teams?This Team is built each player similar in abilities and the way they  play the game. The Bulls played the game different from the league then and continue  again today.Taj earned the start spot at 4 and is a Grant/Rodman hybrid with all-around game. DWade is very similar game to His Airness and Butler looks like his new Pippen. Maybe we just got lucky in this Chemistry experiment or maybe there is a design.Lawrence JoyI could be wrong and will admit it.  This clearly disqualifies me from a career in politics for which I am grateful.  Watching the Bulls for their first 3 games is like a Twilight Zone episode.  Who are these men?  It is fun basketball after last years slog.  It is most unexpected. I assumed that there would be ball sharing issues between Wade, Rajon and Butler.  So far that assumption is plainly wrong.  Ball movement is the best I have witnessed in years.  3 point shooting over 40% ?  What is going on?  Maybe that Holberg is a good fit, maybe Rondo is a genius in the floor, DWade a marksman and Jimmy happy to be here. I know it is only 3 games but really I think I might have been so wrong.  And I am happy about it.Greg YoungI absolutely loved the 2010/2011/2012 Bulls teams that finished number one in the East.  Who would have thought that Taj Gibson would be the only remaining player still with the Bulls a short four years later?William KochneffNow that I've ordered my tickets for the NBA finals, it's time to clear up the last two burning questions about the Bulls. Why does everyone refer to Rajon Rondo only by his last name? Everyone else on the team is referred to by their first name or a nickname much of the time, but not Mr. Rondo. 2. In your opinion, why did the Bulls opt for Michael Carter-Williams over Spencer Dinwiddie? It seemed to me that Dinwiddie was a capable defender--maybe not in MCW's class, but good--with a good jump shot and a willingness to keep the ball moving on offense.Kirk LandersI have to say I'm pleasantly surprised how good the Bulls have looked considering the new faces they have.  Maybe they are one veteran guy off the bench short to really contend for top 4 spot in East, then again maybe they are fine as is?  What I like is the depth!  McDermott and Mirotic are the key guys off the bench, very young group which concerns me a little bit. MCW is really a good pick up, his defense on point guards has been impressive, really only saw him play when he played the Bulls.  From the short sample I have seen I don't understand why Milw wanted him gone?  He will score for the Bulls in a more efficient manner mainly because his points will be a bonus and not necessary. Portis will have to step up his play to get on the court it seems, not a lot of minutes available for the 5th big guy.  Very good start to the season; very hopeful the ball movement continues, we just need to work on improving defense, especially against the three, though they are likely giving up garbage 3's because they have been ahead in most games so far.Steve FultonIs Taj Gibson right now a better offense player for the Bulls than Grant was?LongGiang-LiIf Rose is on a better team, why are they losing. You should ask the TV commentators.Kieron SmithOne thing stands out about the Bulls team so far. No Pau Gasol! I was getting tired of watching him get beat to the rim. Robin Lopez is an upgrade.Chris RagalieIt's early and the Bulls look crisp, fast, free flowing and everyone is playing well.(Fingers crossed) Well, almost everyone. What's going on with Portis? I actually haven't seen him enough to give an assessment on his play. Is he in the dog house? Is he practicing well? The Bulls have won handedly in last two games and seemingly, there should've been more minutes for him than what he got in those blow outs. Especially the Nets one where we controlled the game start to finish. I'm not the coach of course but this is a contradiction to what Gar proudly proclaimed in the pre game show of the opener that "we are still high on Portis!" Did I miss something?Marcus AndersonI'm hearing so much of "the bulls should do what the cubs did with rebuilding" scenario. I don't think that works in basketball- stars are typically born not built like baseball. Dwade is the real leader the bulls have been needing. Savy, smart and selfless- he seems to be the coach on the court. Weird how this team came together but it may actually work well. The East is still not very good except the top 3 teams.Adnaan HamidYou wrote that Taj Gibson said, "You see how Jimmy is running around smiling. He’s not mad right now. It’s been great and I’m loving it."That caught my attention.Is it a problem, or perhaps a sign of problems to come, that Gibson finds it noteworthy to point out that Butler isn't mad, as if he usually is and it's an issue?Cameron WatkinsAs we discussed over the last couple months, the key is the relationships they have formed, that were missing the last few years. Indiana free throw: Wade and coach talking and Wade was laughing with him. Much more chatter and smiles on the court. McDermott loving going to team dinners and going over to players homes  Kind of similar to the Warrior’s footprint?Rex DotyDid Hinrich and Wade have a lot of dislike for one another? Could they have played together if Hinrich's body had held up and if they were both younger?Jason KuangThe contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
I remember when the Bulls brought in Larry Keenan as the star to saves us in the early 1980's before Michael. The management referred to him as Dr Kwas a good offensive player, from what I remember, but hardly anything to put a Dr in front of his
  initial. The Bulls always had the hard sell for all their teams, except when Michael came along and changed all of that. It's much easier to sell seats and viewership when you have a transcendent star. And actually, we've had a few transcendent
  stars like Scottie and Derrick. But something happened after Michael and Scottie left, and I don't think this organization has recovered; and that is the drive of the players to succeed no matter what the odds. I see some of that in Lavine. And as
  driven as Paxson is, I don't see it in management. I kind of wonder what happened. I thought when Paxson first came in and drafted Heinrich, and then Deng and Gordon, that the team was moving in the right direction. Maybe all the heartache with
  Derrick's injuries and Butler's eventual change of attitude and subsequent change of teams. Maybe it's all the criticism that's everywhere on social media these days. Maybe it's just luck sometimes. The Bulls were lucky a few times in the past
  that changed their whole franchise. So I hope we get lucky again soon. I do like a lot of the players on this team.Elias Zimianitis
  I do miss the good old days when the players were so committed and worked so hard and all they cared about was the game and the good of the league and the franchise. You've got one thing exactly right. Luck, which got the Bulls Jordan (Portland
  took Sam Bowie ahead) and Rose (1.7 percent draft lottery odds) and despite all the fun Hinrich and Gordon and Deng and Nice they maxed out at 49 wins. You've got to luck into a star, and while the Bulls did move up cleverly to draft Pippen at No.
  5, without Jordan there were no titles and Scottie's defense would not have looked that great on a 42-win team. Look, the Bulls care and are trying, and Markkanen, Carter, LaVine, perhaps Dunn and a lottery pick and free agent to come isn't a bad
  start in year 2 of rebuilding. It doesn't look like a championship team yet, but it looks like they care. Though you're always better off really lucky than really caring.
Boylen is starting a "leadership committee" in his team? This can't be real, right? Sam, I've been a Bulls fan for a long time. I've seen Rusty LaRue, and ERob, and Tim Floyd, and Ron Artest working in Best Buy as a rookie to get the
  discounts, and heard every time Hoiberg praised the team's "great spirit in yesterday's practice" right after a loss. And yet this is somehow the dumbest thing I've seen. I'm sure you'll put a positive spin on it, so I look forward to
  hearing it.Alejandro Yegros
  Floyd did have a leadership committee. It was Charles Oakley telling him he was the worst coach he'd ever seen. I don't think it's dumb because it got everyone through the weekend, if also some good humor around the rest of the league. There are
  all sorts of such informal things around the NBA, and the Bulls sort of had it with the so called Breakfast Club of Jordan, Pippen and Ron Harper, who discussed with Phil all sorts of ways to work with Dennis Rodman. You don't think that required
  player input? Though Michael made up the titles back then. It's not a big deal. Humor them.
Your recent article planted in my mind a bench mob of Dunn, Harrison, Hutchinson, Parker & Porter. Have Dunn and Harrison apply defensive pressure at half court. Thus no change to starting 5Wayne WarnerLavine's been a pleasant surprise and I'm glad to see him having a good season. However, what the heck is up with some of his passes? He makes at least three mind boggling, absolutely horrendous attempts to pass through traffic, often resulting
  in easy baskets for the opponents. Are the coaches too mesmerized by his gravity defying dunks that no one's noticing this?Bambi ChoyJust when I think things couldn't get any lower they bumble up the acquisition with Parker. He was good over the last month, Lauri comes back and he goes back to the bench (which is fine) and now he isn't in the rotation? Seriously something is
  off with this. Maybe he was the one telling his teammates not to go to training.Andrew BrownMy biggest concern with all of this Boylen talk is simple: Zach Lavine. Portis is too tough to care, I don't care what Parker thinks, WCJ is too young to have a say in it, and Markkanen seems to be a little more easy going and younger to not
  question the coach. What scares me is the new coach that has proven nothing as a head coach coming in and upsetting Zach Lavine. Yes, how childish does that sound? But honestly, I don't care if Lavine is being a little sensitive or whiny even.
  He's the guy I come to watch. He's the guy I want to play for the Bulls for a long time. He's the greatest wild card to me (Markkanen may end up the better overall player) and thus the key to winning anything in the near future. Even if Boylen is
  doing what he feels is best for the team and if it is the right thing, I just don't want this to become a weekly issue between a coach and player for years to come. Is it that serious, or something small that will go away? Would Gar/Pax step in
  and tell Boylen to cool it or you gotta go? Are we all just over-analyzing and exaggerating this too much?Jon Kueper
  He and Boylen haven't gotten off to the best start, but I think Boylen will see how much he needs Zach's offense, and Zach just wants to play, and play for a winning team. So he'll make the changes he has to, I'm confident.
The Bulls seems to have a problem setting picks. Why does the guy setting the pick move? It's the ball handler's responsibility to drive the defender into the pick. Boylen should show them some old footage of Mark Price. He knew how to use a
  pick!Andrew MoulesongBefore I write about the Bulls... Westbrook had what? 24-17-13 plus 4 steals?? Yes, he also had 10 TO's... thanks to the Bulls' new ball-hawking defense. But... Geez, 17 rebounds for a guy who's 6'3". Our two best rebounders were Lauri &
  Jabari, with 7 each adding up to 14. It's hard for me to find fault with a PG who averages double-digit assists every year and rebounds like a PF. The kid's a freak! Yes, this will be interesting with the Bulls. I'm not sure if Boylen is coming on
  too strong, or if Fred spoiled them. Probably a little of both. In the end, it will come down to whether he helps them succeed/win. Remember what Noah told Thibs. ("I'd really hate you if we weren't winning so much.")Art Alenik
  If the Bulls start winning now, it will be all about committees and tough love and if they don't, well it won't. We always judge sports backwards. If it worked, it was the right way to do it. The Bulls are insistent this is part of their process,
  and so we'll see. There are plenty of judgments to come. Making them about a week's work isn't really enough.

  I wanted to answer the Westbrook part, as well. We agree he's a fierce player and a star of the league, but those triple doubles are as fraudulent as can be. It was clear in that game with the Bulls the way Steven Adams simply either got out of
  the way to let Westbrook grab the ball or sealed off an opponent so Westbrook can have the board. We've always heard Westbrook demands Adams do that, and you can tell Adams could care less about stats and is a great teammate. We saw some of that
  with Rodman and Luc Longley (those guys from that part of the world seem much friendlier and unselfish) as Rodman asked Luc to get out of the way so he could get a lot of those rebounds. Luc always cleared for the missed free throw rebound, the
  easiest of all since the offense is running back. Except when Jordan tried to dunk those. Westbrook's terrific, but those are bogus, inflated triple double stats. If Wendell Carter was playing with anyone from New Zealand he might lead the league
  in rebounding.
This is on purpose though, right? Dyin' for Zion?Yousuf ShamsieMy question centers around Hutchison. I've been watching the box scores focused a bit on him. Do you think he is more of a work in progress than originally thought? He still gets some run behind Holiday and now Parker but doesn't seem to be
  taking advantage of it. I know late round picks are not supposed to be world beaters but just wanted your take on him so far this year.Greg YoungWhat's your feeling being around the team the last week or so? I'm reminded of the old saying "It's always darkest before the dawn".Mike BurlingWell the main thing, as you've said, is they need better players on the floor - we'll see if Dunn and Portis can help with that soon.Guy DanilowitzBesides offering a free agent a big contract, the free agent could head up the "leadership committee"?Did the Bulls increase the odds of luring Kevin Durant with this opportunity?If not, who else might be a good candidate to help with the LC job?Jeff LichtensteinThe Bulls have reached the Boylen PointErik FentonThe contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.I greatly admire how this current team wins through unselfish play, determination, and team chemistry.  I sort of believe them when they say they play for each other, for the team and not for selfish agendas.  It's very satisfying for many fans to root for a team and a coach that overcomes adversity and plays with such purpose.  I don't know if I really want to see this team blown up and become "hollywood as hell" if they decide to accumulate stars to "win championships." I might enjoy being able to tell my kids these Bulls play the right way a little more even if I have to endure the occasional 28 turnovers and 2/13 from the 3 pt. line night.Ed HoldenSam: And, to think, a few months ago I spent most of these columns defending why the Bulls shouldn’t throw the season for a draft pick. Obviously, the Bulls like every other team will try to add talent to make a run for a championship. And there’s no reason why star players cannot get together and get along and play like these Bulls, though it doesn’t always happen. Still, talent generally wins and overcomes those obstacles, and even if the players may not quite bond like this group of Bulls players, if you have high character people, like the Heat seem to, then you can endure the egos and the occasional outside agenda because high character people generally love the game and will put competing first. But this has been a good group to watch and to me much more fun than watching the lottery drawing.I was wondering, exactly what do you think is the ceiling for this Bulls team? We are seeing a team right now which is clearly better and healthier than last year's team. We are seeing Noah slowly transform into a superstar and Taj has been great all year. The Heat (and people can say all they want about how they aren't turning it on until the playoffs but I'm not buying it) just don't seem to be all there this year and Wade is resting too much for a superstar player that is only in his early 30s. They, as well as the Pacers, seem to be stumbling across the finish line in very poor form. Can this Bulls team, assuming we get past the first round which is no easy task, pull off a shocker in the second round or the Conference Finals? I wouldn't be surprised. They seem very motivated. Elbron OdishoSam: Many of my questions are versions of this, which always are disappointing in some sense. It’s a variation of last fall’s Derrick is gone so forget the season stuff. I recall pleading that you play it out and never know what will happen, which is the great part about the regular season. I frankly didn’t expect this, and the way the Bulls are playing with vulnerable Miami and Pacers teams, yes, a “miracle” season is possible. But then you miss the fun by not embracing each game and each moment, as Thibodeau clearly has the players doing. That’s the fun no matter how far they go. We’ll know their ceiling when they are done. Realistically D.J. will be starting somewhere else for at least four million a year, if not more. However Jimmer does not have four million a year coming to him this offseason. Plus, is there a better defensive teacher than Thibs? What are the chances that Jimmer resigns with the Bulls? Jimmer would be valuable, especially if we let Kirk and others go, to go after Anthony or another star. Then again Jimmer wants to play, but why not get a full season under Thibs before he takes his talents elsewhere. We could use him, he could use us. Kevin JonesSam: D.J.’s not gone yet. He’s certainly made a wonderful case for himself to again run a team, and you have to be happy for him even if he were to leave given how he’s endured and what a first class person he is. Still, there’s no certainty he’ll get that sort of offer as most teams have point guards they are paying. Plus, the Bulls could have money or a substantial exception and there are scenarios where both he and Hinrich return. As we all know, much will be uncertain this summer depending on what other players become available. Jimmer isn’t a point guard, which is the main issue vis a vis Augustin. I like Jimmer and think he can help a team. He just came when the Bulls happened to be their healthiest in years and have their most set rotation since Thibodeau became coach. I suspect he’ll want to be where he gets more opportunity to play and will look for a situation that better suits him. Of course, the playoffs are to come and things change once there. With the Bobcats first rounder going to Chicago this year, the Bulls should have two mid-first round picks. The mock drafts that I've seen have Doug McDermott going between the sixth and thirteenth pick or so. I think that it would be a fair trade on both sides for the Bulls to package both first rounders for someone picking McDermott. What is the chance that it will happen? Joe WebsterSam: How that’s go, slim and none and slim just left town. It isn’t the NFL; lower first round picks are not as valuable. You’d rather have one top 10 than four in the 20’s. The NBA is about high level talent. The Bulls have done remarkably well without that thanks to some clever scouting and drafting. But you can’t always hit. And that still doesn’t produce stars. I’ve been asked about all these players as they leave school, like the Michigan shooting guard Nik Stauskas of late and Connecticut’s Shabazz Napier. The Bulls need a shooting guard, though coming out of college they are far from ready. The two shooting guard lottery picks last year went to bad teams and still couldn’t get in the rotation. I’d say the first priority would be a big man, which you should get with the better pick, which would be Charlotte’s at 16 or 17. I’d hope they package the other one in a trade for a veteran. While there has been some talk about most improved for Gibson, and rightly so, I haven’t heard Noah mentioned for this award. I know he was already an all-star, but doesn’t the jump to MVP vote winner at this stage of his career makes him worthy of consideration? Peter JohnsonSam: Yes, Noah is much improved, one of the most in recent years. But the Bulls can’t win all the awards, can they? I’ve got some votes and will be voting this weekend and revealing my votes in my Monday NBA column. I know I’m not voting for Noah for Most Improved. I’m quite sure he has no chance to get it. After all, he was an All-Star last year. He’ll likely be a strong contender for Defensive Player and All-NBA. One problem watching the Bulls more than other teams is you see their positives and negatives more than players from other teams. That’s a tough award as you can pick a dozen good candidates from stars to be who improved, like Anthony Davis, to ones who never were who did like Gerald Green. And, after all, this Bulls team is only going to win a few more games than it won last season also without Derrick Rose. Do you think D.J. Augustin have a chance to be in the running for Sixth Man of the Year along with Taj Gibson? With Jamal Crawford missing numerous games, I can only see one of the Morris' twins winning that award. Jermaine ClarkSam: Well, that wouldn’t do much for Gibson’s chances. I think Gibson has a good chance to win the award. But if Augustin were considered a top contender that probably would split the vote and give it to Crawford, who does lead all bench players in scoring. Manu Ginobili also is having a great reserve season with the league’s best team. Shush, keep it quiet. It’s just Taj. Is there a better candidate for “Most Improved” than D J Augustine?  Gibson should certainly be in the running, but D J has come from further behind. Joe LavelySam: Well, three of his four seasons in Charlotte he averaged double figures, as he’s pointed out, and 14 and 6 one season, which is about what he’s averaging for the Bulls. Yes, he has been better, and much better of late with a better team.  But not that much improved from what he’s been when given the playing time he gets now. As Augustin also points out often when reporters say they are shocked at what he’s doing, that he’s been a pretty good player. He has been. Why do coaches shorten their rotations in the playoffs?  If a team has a deep bench then why not exploited this advantage in the postseason just as in the regular season?  I would think that many starters would appreciate their regular minutes of rest especially around the conference finals. Daniel GomezSam: Pat Riley has an old saying, which he basically borrowed from renowned Phoenix basketball writer Joe Gilmartin, who will receive the Gowdy award from the Basketball Hall of Fame this summer. It’s: "You play nine, use eight, rotate seven, like six and trust five." It’s the basic coaching view. If they could get away with playing their five best all the time they all would. So they play as many of their best as they can since they know the other team is using its best. There’s generally a reason why you are ninth man. I would actually prefer to see Bulls easing minutes on their starters and Gibson in the final week of regular season, or even give an off to Noah, Gibson and Hinrich for the final match of the playoff. Because if they are going to face the Nets, It is going to be a very tough and grinding series that will end with 6 games at least. We need our Power houses fully charged. Nakul VaidSam:  I’m glad unlike many around the NBA that Thibodeau respects the game and the paying fans. Plus, I think you improve by playing and not by sitting around. I think the Bulls are playing their best of the season, especially on offense, because of their familiarity with one another and playing together in so many tough situations. It’s an easy second guess if they lose, but they’ll lose if they are not talented enough. They’re the greatest athletes in the world. Plus they’ll be in a first round series that everyone generally complains has too many off days because TV stretches it out to televise all the games.  Let ‘em play. Do you think trading Granger had that big of an effect on the Pacers?  Could losing a guy like that who played such few minutes have that big of an effect on the team? Gorav RahejaSam: I’ve heard this theory as well and if they were that weak and unstable then it would have been inevitable. Shouldn’t the Bulls then have folded after the Deng trade as he was actually playing? It’s seemed to me more a team that got caught up in believing  what they were saying about themselves and listening to others rather than doing the work. The truth is they are just a good team, and Larry Bird understood, which is why he tried to add players because he could see they weren’t good enough. Though perhaps that made them face reality. They’re good, and good has to work at it all the time and relentlessly. They haven’t. I'll put it down plain and simple: how in the world do the Pacers manage to have a 55 to 60 wins season? Please help me because I've been watching them quite a bit this season and I can't figure it out. I get they play terrific defense because they have athletes who give their all but they are terrible on offense: it's all one-on-ones with the only reliable scorers being George and West. The bulls shoot terrible and have droughts but at least they share the ball and try to run stuff though Noah or from the pick'n'roll situations and are all very smart players. Cosimo SartiSam: It appears to have caught up with the Pacers, which is why the regular season is important. What you think is the reason that the Pacers and the Heat aren't playing their best game right now? I was watching some of their last games and both teams seems very inconsistent. Do you think they started the season at max level and while other teams improved they were already at the max and many teams now know how to counter them? Felipe TronicSam: The Heat have coasted some, though more because of the way they’ve slowly brought along Dwyane Wade. I do think it’s a danger sign as if he could play he would have been playing more. They’re vulnerable without Wade, though they are the one team in the East who can raise their level of play for the playoffs. It’s often said as a criticism of the Bulls that they play so hard in the regular season they cannot get better in the playoffs. But the way the East is this season I see only Miami who can do that and that all the others basically played as hard as they were capable to get where they are. While you and I disagree on the Constitutionality of the NBA’s restraint-of-trade on age limitations, the fact is the NBA rule isn’t going to change until it’s challenged in court.  In the meantime, what do you think of this?  The NBA sets a 2-year waiting period for entering the league.  Meanwhile, allow NBA teams to draft players coming out of high school.  Create a set pay scale and put their salaries into an escrow account while the players develop for 2 years in college, with some allowance for a stipend.  Then, when the players become eligible, they collect the escrow money.  This solves several problems:  1) It makes the NBA responsible for taking some of the risk of young player development; 2) It removes risk from being placed completely on the shoulders of young athletes; 3) It gets college players a stipend without requiring universities to pay them; and 4) players enter the NBA with better skills and the overall game is improved.  Christopher PrinceSam: Yes, we have had this debate previously and I appreciate your point of view and your strict constructionist view. I do believe the NBA needs more qualified players because the quality of play has diminished in recent years because of so many one and done and previously high school players coming into the NBA. It’s only natural that would result, and the game as good as it is remains not nearly as good as it could be and has been. I understand your argument of restraint of trade, though I don’t believe it wins in court, and certainly no one has challenged it since it has been collectively bargained. My principal points remain the same: Every business has the right to protect itself and require work rules, like law degrees for lawyers and CPA tests for accountants. It’s hardly unique. It’s no constitutional right to play in the NBA. There’s an active debate now because of the union ruling with the Northwestern students. That’s more understandable as the NCAA today is like the Robber Barons of the late 19th century who so abused workers’ rights that they effectively created the unions. The NCAA is doing this today because of its selfish, one sided view of the college sports business.  They’re forced players into the open with the greed of the NCAA masters. NBA commissioner Adam Silver said in an interview this week the NBA might be involved in some way in helping kids headed for the NBA. I do think a minor league system of some sort is inevitable as many teams now have their own D-league affiliates. But if you don’t want to go to college to get training—and I also think a two-year minimum is coming in the next labor agreement now that Billy Hunter and his obstructionism is out—you can get another job. You can go play in the D-league. There are other minor leagues. It’s no guaranteed right to have multi-million dollar contracts in the NBA. They don’t let you in grad school without an undergraduate degree. There are basketball jobs overseas, though many fewer with the European economy poor. The NBA owes it to its players and fans to enhance its product, and the best way to do that is keep out teenagers not ready for the NBA. Plus, history also has shown teams no matter how many resources and scouts they have cannot make adequate talent judgments on high school seniors; nor should they have to and thus pay for it. Though, again, the larger issue is in the colleges, which are making literally billions of dollars--as the recent NCAA tournament showed—on the backs of these players. That’s who should be compensating them for their work as it directly profits the colleges. When they come to the NBA when they are more prepared to do so, then they’ll be compensated if they deserve to be.  The NBA product has declined in having to become a babysitting service for too many of these teenagers. They need to stay in school longer. Life is full of risks. Sure, you can get hurt, perhaps because your body is not mature. So why does the NBA team have to endure that, which precludes a team from improving itself because it is carrying the salary of that injured kid. The league has to protect itself and its product from unprepared workers. It’s hardly creating a hardship to ask someone to wait until he’s 20 to get into such a high level work force. Victor WiselSam: I assume this involves merely paper mache because we know gambling is wrong as anyone who follows the NFL or the NCAA tournament will tell you. But I think the odds may be dropping at least a little. Still, I wouldn’t use rent money. What kind of role will Ronnie Brewer have with the Bulls? Israel RochaSam:  Cinnamon?



I’m not going to be one of the fans that over react, but one thing that I find kind of interesting is that D Rose started really strong in preseason last year and once the regular season started, he seemed like a completely different player. It seems as though the same thing has happened this year. He started the camp really strong and played well in the scrimmage and the exhibition in Chicago. Since then he seems like a different player who has regressed.John RallisSam: Sounds like an overreaction to me. This examination of Rose’s every shot and move—and I guess I’m partly guilty being here in Spain for this tournament and analyzing every play—sounds like Richard Nixon’s complaint about the press, that he didn’t mind if they examined him with a microscope, but did they have to use a proctoscope? It makes sense what Thibodeau had to say about Rose trying to do too much too fast last year because of the buildup and months of expectations from the previous season and all the controversy about when he would return. That’s why this tournament really is so good for Rose as it gets him in playing condition and he knows—even as he thinks he did without doing so last year—what he has to do and how much to get back to that great level of play. Though we’ve much noted his poor shooting in this World Cup tournament, I think he’s playing really well. He’s fast and explosive. His moves in the open court and past half court defenders are breathtaking. He looks to be aiming his shot now because everyone keeps asking. He really does look great.I read your article about Ray Allen, and I totally agree he would be a great fit.  Though I remember you telling me he wouldn't come to the Bulls so I suspect you are just stirring things up for the fans.Stephen FultonSam: Yes, I previously doubted Allen would select the Bulls because it was Miami and LeBron and Wade. This is Cleveland and LeBron and Irving. Ok, Love isn’t bad. But they have shooters and nothing personal, but at close to 40 with young kids it doesn’t seem Cleveland is a stop off. Some tell me Allen won’t play, though I tend to think he’ll come back like P.J. Brown did for the Celtics that one season around the All-Star break. But as I wrote and not to tease fans, Chicago is the ideal place because no one else can offer such a defined role. And so good a chance to win. Plus, he likes the Midwest. Imagine that.I personally tend to be a  bit goggle-eyed about the talent of the bigs, but that doesn't mean I'm missing DMD, Snell, or Butler.  Curious to see how Brooks does.  But it's all against a backdrop of the remade Bulls roster.   Who thinks Rose would have won MVP if Bulls had landed LBJ summer 2010? That's the fairer question to ask in the current context.  Let's get real blunt here.  I don't especially want Rose to win MVP this year.  That likely means he's dominating the ball and I want to see how this experiment with Really Tall Players works out.Pete ZieversSam: It’s a good point about MVP and whom you have. With the addition of Pau, no one else is likely to be a league MVP. The mention of Snell is intriguing to me. There are more and more people around the league taking notice of his talent after the way he played in summer league, a guy with that size and shooting range and the defensive capability. But suddenly the Bulls roster seems busting and he could be an odd man out, especially if the Bulls add Ray Allen. Few coaches push two rookies into the rotation for a potential title team. Snell really has only the experience of a rookie, essentially, though McDermott seems the more ideal immediate fit with his pure shooting. It’s a nice problem to have and will likely be a subject of much discussion this season.Rose winning MVP was great but Bulls were never going to win a championship with a PG scoring 25 a game and 8 assists. We saw against good teams we were very easy to defend. If Rose comes back as a 17-20 point scorer with 7-9 dimes a game and plays the type of probing style that Tony Parker plays only then will the Bulls be a legit contender. In the end, dropping out of MVP contention is the best thing to happen to him and the Bulls because now we've built a team including him rather than around him. It's a subtle but huge difference.Sundeep ShahSam: That’s the plan, and why this recent fan overreaction about “Rose never will be an MVP again, woe is us” seems curiously misplaced. Parker and the Spurs are a good example. The Bulls aren’t perfect as the shooting guard and small forward positions remain in some flux. But the front court seems best in the league. Yes, Spain lost in the World Cup, but Pau may have been the best all around player in the tournament. You forget how long he is and how good a shot blocker he can be. It may be more a problem of riches of how to use so many big men and whether Mirotic will get much chance to play.I've only followed the box scores and read the recaps for the world cup.  Therefore, I'm missing the context of Derrick Rose's shots, whether or not they were good decisions, contested, the locations on the floor, game situations, etc.  That said, his field goal % is brutal so far and I'm not sure he's made a single short international three yet, though he is taking them.  I know he's rusty, but I think we were all hoping the practice he put in shooting over the past couple of years while he couldn't play real games would at least help prevent him from regressing with his shot if not improve it.  I know he's still getting used to live games again.  Is that all that's going on?Cameron WatkinsSam: He’s talked about the different ball, which all the USA players say is slippery and even the good shooters, like Stephen Curry, have struggled at times. I think he is a little tense about the attention to it, and I thought it was interesting after the Lithuania game Thursday he talked about being nervous. After all, you lose in USA Basketball and the stain stays with you for years. Rose never has been a great shooter, but his shot looks fine to me. I watch him with Thibs in practice and he’ll make 10 in a row moving from spot to spot. So it doesn’t seem in the form. I think it’s just circumstance of not playing as much and getting only a few jumpers. And when you are in a situation like that you don’t have a chance to shoot yourself out of it with a run later in the game, which Rose will have during the regular season.How important is team chemistry in developing competitive teams?  Would the San Antonio Spurs beat the current USA team?Gorav RahejaSam: Chemistry is overused, albeit vital. A happy family makes a happier life and vacation. But talent rules. The Spurs would be swept.I was just wondering why Mirotic isn't playing for Spain?Trevor HofflerSam: Serge Ibaka isn’t anymore, either. They are allowed one player from outside who has played there. They chose Ibaka over Mirotic, who is from Montenegro. Both can now get a head start with their teams in the U.S. So it does turn out after all the USA will not be able to beat Spain in this FIBA Basketball World Cup tournament.Should Riley have pulled a Krause and just tore down the Miami Heat after LBJ left? Paying Bosh would have been like overpaying Pippen after our 6th ring. I just think that this Miami team will be bad and possibly miss the post season while paying out high salaries to an aging team with no future and youth what so ever.Mike SuteraSam: I tend to mostly agree. I think they’re falling to the middle, which is what you are never supposed to want to do. Yet, there never has been anything worse than that 1998-2003 period for the Bulls. Maybe in NBA history. Krause’s plan wasn’t wrong. It was the execution. The 76ers are trying it now, though in a more devious way in refusing to try to compete while they rebuild. There’s nothing wrong with what they are doing as building through the draft is a legitimate method. It’s just the daring of their dumping. If I were Miami, I might have paid off Wade the next two years and held off on Bosh, though you do need players even in a nice place to attract talent. It’s not an unreasonable plan, though it suggests a coming mediocrity. But who are we to talk having accepted that Bulls rebuilding plan.Timberwolves trade: Another awful trade that only helps the opposing team? To me, the issue isn't whether Love could leave at the end of the year, it's the fact that some other teams are a horrible drag on the NBA. I've always wanted the NBA to contract, have less teams!Matt AdlerSam: Contraction obviously is never happening given the labor implications of lost jobs. There’s some interesting stuff coming with these new TV deals that are going to vastly increase the salary cap and seemingly provide opportunities for smaller markets. Though with a cap and revenue sharing, it shouldn’t matter in the NBA. Oklahoma City could have been one of those uncompetitive markets, but they made wise personnel choices and got lucky big with Durant, which is the main thing. You get Jordan, but then you have to get the right pieces and environment, and Krause did that in the 90’s. I actually think it’s a great deal for the Timberwolves as they get a celebrated No. 1 overall pick and a less celebrated one whom I think will be much better than previously showing. And for a guy who was leaving and never led them to the playoffs, anyway. I think they’re a much more watchable team going forward. So we’ll keep them in the league another few years.I was looking around on basketball-reference and noticed that Wilt Chamberlain averaged 43.3 minutes per game while playing all 82 games in his last three seasons at age 34, 35 and 36.  I know Chamberlain was one of the most impressive athletes ever to play the sport, but those minutes just reminded me that Thibodeau didn't exactly invent playing guys a lot of minutes over the past four years via Deng and Butler.Carl WatkinsSam: It’s a point Thibs mostly makes, but I am sympathetic. You can’t compare with Wilt averaging 48.5 minutes per game one season in an era as we know that teams even traveled commercial, played coast to coast back to backs and Wilt even lived in New York while playing in Philadelphia. He did have a place in Philly. But we obsess about minutes and usage in this era and then say they are the greatest athletes ever. If they are, there’s no reason they can’t play. If they are tired, they should raise their hands to say they need a rest and a juice box. It’s OK.So what have you thought about the play of Anthony Davis? He is looking like he is going to be a huge star and probably this season.  I fully expect New Orleans to make the playoffs with him sliding over to the 4.  That is a very dangerous front court, bet they are going to block a ton of shots this year.  How long till you get ridiculous trade demands in do you think?  People are going to want Davis in Chicago and begin the chatter shortly if I am any judge. I would love to see him here, but I hope he can carry New Orleans and be a star there for years to come instead of leaving.Matt ReevSam: I’ve gotten several of those already of “Let’s wait til ’18.” I think it’s pretty clear to most everyone now with his USA Basketball play. Everyone was seeing this last season in the NBA despite all the injuries there. It’s why when I did an early season preview in July I had them fourth in the West. I did that a bit to make a point, but I do think it’s possible given all the injuries they had last season to top players. It will put coach Monty Williams on the spot this season. Again, the Western Conference is going to have a team some think can win a title missing the playoffs. The Jabari Parker to the Bulls emails haven’t started yet, but I assume soon.I was just thinking about all this fuss and this anxiety culture that's developed because as fans, we're so attached to Rose and seeing him play that having watched him get injured twice, we basically hold our breath every time he drives or if he says he's feeling sore. Then something occurred to me. When Rose was healthy during his MVP season, yes he was playing with as much reckless abandon as we've seen him play but that wasn't how he got injured, and that was one of his healthiest seasons so far. In fact, both times he's gotten injured, it was on non-contact plays that were essentially forced. Which in both cases reflects the reckless and forced nature he plays with. And now we're hearing him say things like he's learned to play more controlled and a little more systematic than always in overdrive. So my question to you is this: do you think those non-contact plays were independent and incidental or somehow correlated to the strain he puts his body through by being a little reckless and the cumulative contact he's had? Because if it's the latter, I don't think he should change his style of play completely to avoid injury but perhaps do exactly what he said he's doing, and that is to play a little more controlled and a little less reckless.Vinay NagarajSam: I do think that’s the plan. I think you can see from his play with USA Basketball, which is another reason it was such a good idea if not only to get me a trip to Spain, is that he’s playing fast and fierce. He’s also protecting his body more, strengthening, always with the ice on his knees, carrying around devices that seem like old torture chamber stuff, going through extensive movements before he comes into games. I don’t think he’ll change his style because that’s who he is and how he knows how to play. He wouldn’t be Derrick anymore. But he is working to keep his body in better shape. When he came to the Bulls he was a kid like we were when kids, just playing because things came so easy. He got hurt and it’s become work to maintain his body, which he discovered you cannot do without. I think we’ll see the same aggressive player, though also with better teammates having to do less like with USA Basketball.Given the news that Rondo wants out, what do you think of a trade between The Suns and The Celtics? Centering around Rondo and Bledsoe?Marlon UmaliSam: Maybe it would prove too embarrassing to the Suns having once given up the pick Boston used for Rondo. Plus, the Suns have Dragic and the Celtics drafted a point guard. But it certainly seems Rondo is going to be traded. Danny Ainge is an astute general manager and is going to wait out who becomes the most desperate. Rondo, though, is a tough fit because as much as he does the shooting remains an issue. But it was good to get back in bad trade talk mode.Where do you think Elgin Baylor would rank today as a small forward with current offensively minded rules? Also, in all the old video I see no one seems to cross over dribble, is that because it was considered carrying.Adnaan HamidSam: Yes, it was a carry, palming as we called it then. Baylor probably is the most underrated great star ever. You never see any film on him and he’s rarely mentioned, in part, because he wasn’t on a title team and retired early in the season the Lakers won. But he invented hanging in the air and scoring and would challenge LeBron for first team forward if he were still playing. Well, maybe not at 80. He was a high level Bernard King with those sorts of scoring moves.The fact that players don't really see playing for the USA Basketball being a honor and a privilege. So many players drop out on the team and many wouldn't be even available to play that I found ludicrous. I know the teams are the ones who pay the players and injuries can happen, but they can happen on the way to the gym or the supermarket. Anyone remember what the '92 Dream Team in the Olympics did to the NBA internationally? My question is not only about the players but the population in general and journalists in particular. Why do journalists undervalue these international tournaments so much? This should be an honor and a privilege for Derrick to represent his country. The Bulls fans should be proud to have a player on their team that got picked to play for his national team. Isn't it arrogant to think the World Championship is a minor tournament?Rui DiasSam: Let’s say if this were ancient times, we in the U.S. would have come up with the scientific theory of the sun revolving around the United States. We are a very parochial country. Though oceans aren’t big barriers any longer, we developed with the idea of being separate. And the country being so big, Americans tend not to travel overseas that much, so they don’t learn other languages like in Europe. The larger issue these days and you hear it most publicly from owners like Mark Cuban is the American profit motive—What’s in it for me? It’s understandable the way teams pay the contracts they worry about their “assets,” as if it’s appropriate to consider people that way. So an NBA title means more in the U.S. than any basketball title anywhere, including the Olympics. Typically, now is U.S. football season, which dwarfs any other sport. The NBA doesn’t even do its big promotion until the NFL season concludes. I think playing in these tournaments is a wonderful experience, and life is all about experiences. If you never do it you will be shortchanged. I think every USA player who has a chance would be foolish not to take part.

The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.Obviously it is very early but in your opinion who is more likely to see rotation minutes this year between McDermott and Mirotic? My initial reaction after two preseason games would be McDermott. I say this because he appears to understand Thibs’ defensive philosophies pretty well and although he has to work extremely hard to execute, at least mentally he is on the right page. Mirotic seems to be adjusting to the speed of the NBA game but is probably a better athlete and a little smoother on the court. But McDermott seems like he worked all summer with his coach dad to understand when to show on a pick and roll, how to rotate defensively and to stick pretty close to shooters in the corner.Ron GoldbergSam: This rotation issue has been the most frequent question I have received, which is good in the sense that most fans do seem to accept, at least for now, that Derrick Rose looks sound. I tend to agree with your observation. After Mirotic’s strong opening game, or at least fourth quarter, there was much talk and excitement in the classic backup quarterback and September baseball call up of the next big thing. Listening to Thibs in training camp, it seems obvious to me he intends to go no deeper—without injuries—than a nine player rotation. It’s not unusual. Some coaches use more, especially early in the season; some very successful ones like Pat Riley do not and generally play eight players under the philosophy that you use your best players and they need the work toward developing the teamwork necessary to be a successful playoff team. Yes, I know, Popovich doesn’t subscribe to that, but he has lost in the first or second round several times, also. Thibs has made it pretty clear, it seems to me, he’s not playing two rookies, at least regularly. It seems most obvious the greatest need is wing player, where neither Jimmy Butler nor Mike Dunleavy is the classic starter at their position. With Noah, Gasol and Gibson, there doesn’t seem more minutes up front. And with 12 road games in the first 17, I don’t see Thibodeau doing much experimenting and risk losing the momentum from a good start with Rose, who will be the most vital player to get into playing mode. I think that’s why Thibodeau pushed during the preseason in 2013, and I don’t see him experimenting with Rose and depth he wouldn’t be using in the playoffs too often.From my experience at Creighton, whenever Doug had a mediocre or bad game, my friends and I got really excited because we knew he was going to put on a show the following game (typical of all players who are gym rats). I am very excited to see this next preseason game against Milwaukee. Karthik PatilSam: Yes, McDermott shot three of 12 against the Pistons Tuesday. But even if his shooting hasn’t been great five for 16—enough with the McBuckets thing until he at least gets to 33 percent—it’s been impressive the way he has gotten to the free throw line. He’s had five attempts in each of the games, which is very good and somewhat unusual for a rookie. It shows unlike a lot of those great shooters, McDermott isn’t a standstill guy and faster than many said. He should be a regular for the team and I still believe he has the game and maturity to be a starter at some point during the season. It looks like the Bulls should be shopping Snell as he seems to be getting limited time early, is it better to shop him now with a good summer league or wait and see?  I was hoping he could develop as a quality back up to Butler but that seems not in the cards so let’s get some value when you can. Kevin FranzenSam: He hasn’t played that many minutes thus far, though he did have a good finish against the Pistons. He doesn’t appear to be targeted for a regular spot in the rotation, but based on the Bulls experience of injuries and that he’s barely got more than the experience of a rookie it’s much too soon to be making a final judgment. Plus, management remains very high on Snell and given the spread between his value, which is low not having played much, and management’s view of his potential, which is high, I see him as one of the few untouchables on the team at this point. While everyone talks about the Bulls depth, which they do have, what happens if they are playing a team with a top tier small forward and Butler is unavailable or in foul trouble?  Taking the first two games as an example, Hinrich is obviously too small to guard James or Anthony and Dunleavy too slow.  Certainly playing McDermott in his early rookie year would be like throwing a wounded deer in front of a wolf… so what then?  Seems the only player with the size and speed (assuming Gibson can't cover in that situation for more than a play or two) is Snell.  While he had trouble last year, he's put on muscle and has a year under his belt.  With this in mind, do you see a bigger role for Snell given this situation or how will Thibs defend elite small forwards too big for Hinrich, should Butler be in foul trouble or pull up with an injury? Jake SternSam: Well, there goes 82-0. There are no perfect teams and you adjust (coach) to the circumstances. There certainly will be occasions for Snell to play in a situation like that as Thibs has always done stuff like that. I think Marquis Teague played in that seventh game in Brooklyn. Of course, as we know, Jimmy rarely leaves games, so it may never be an issue. Plus, team defense  and matchups takes into consideration the circumstances. The Bulls covered for Boozer for four years and if Butler is out for 10 minutes they should be able to figure a way to adjust. I know its preseason. I know Thibs is closing with rookies and giving a lot of players loads of minutes early on and that’s good. BUT( Jimmy TorresSam: Yes, wait ‘til next year. Look, Thibs is trying what I guess is excruciating for him to play a dozen or more players. So there’s not much to expect with Rose not playing second halves and Noah sitting out a game. A coach has to learn his players as well. Thibs can game plan and watch film all summer, which he did. I loved him saying the other day how great USA Basketball was when you can spend every day watching basketball, then go have a good dinner and talk basketball and then watch tape until the early morning hours. Was he kidding us? Anyway, Thibs has a bunch of new players to learn, especially Pau Gasol. Pau’s an unusual big man in that he has offensive talent but likes to move the ball like Noah, who does so out of necessity. Thibs is a routine oriented guy who isn’t some offensive guru like Mike D’Antoni. The Bulls didn’t want that; they wanted a defensive first and foremost guy. That’s what they got. I think Thibs like most coaches in this era calls too much from the sideline, but so do the baseball managers and certainly the control freak football coaches. Let ‘em play! But that’s not the way the games are played now with everyone thinking mathematical formulas can win games. It seems the Oakland A’s sort of invented this—well, maybe 30 years after a fan named Bill James—and the A’s continue to lose because they cannot acquire players to make plays. That’s what wins games. So sports has gotten stuck with these mathematicians masquerading as sporting authorities. And then you give the ball to LeBron or Durant.  Yes, I digress again. Thibs runs a conservative game and it was good enough to lead the league in wins every season he coached a healthy or close Rose. Once he begins to get down to close to his regular rotation and substitution pattern, you’ll get a better look at what sort of game the Bulls will play. But given Thibodeau is the coach, it will rely more on defense because that’s where he’s had his most success and that’s why he was hired. And in the Bulls last championship season, the Bulls averaged fewer points than in Thibs’ only season with a healthy Rose. I’ve been a season ticket holder since the Sloan-Van Lier era and, of course, have seen the “good, bad and ugly”.   Of late, I am getting tired of hearing so much about D. Rose.   Basketball is a team sport and as Michael Jordan learned, you gotta play with teammates.   Hopefully, after two serious injuries, Rose has learned not to try to carry the team.   Unless he changes his style of play (aggressive & explosive) he will end up on the bench again watching his.   Let’s give some of the “less-paid” players some attention and just maybe they will be motivated to produce. Russ EvansSam: The Bulls thank you, I’m sure, and admire your patience, especially from 1976 through 1983 and 1999 until Skiles. There’s an erroneous perception that Rose is a scorer and wants to remain so. It’s sort of a paradox. Rose is often asked now not to do as much but at the same time is being measured against his MVP self as in the line of concern that if he’s not an MVP level player again it’s a problem for the team while at the same time everyone says he must slow down and change his game to remain healthy and accommodate a deeper team. What’s a young man to do? It’s been much discussed, but Rose became an NBA high scorer per force after barely averaging 15 points in college on the way to the title game. He’s been perhaps the most popular teammate during his tenure with the Bulls for his unselfish nature amidst his worldwide stardom. But know this: Unless Rose is functioning at a high level, the Bulls are not a contending team. And after all, every season the Bulls won a title with Jordan he led the league in scoring. I don’t believe Rose ever has done that or ever will. Those playing with him always have gotten plenty of chances. After two preseason games it's almost impossible to predict the lineup going forward. The top 7 (Rose, Butler, Dunleavy, Gasol, Noah, Gibson, Hinrich) are set and are all playing their roles well. The last two are still wide open. But from what I've seen it seems Thibs is trusting Brooks with a lot of time and that makes sense to me. He's a proven vet who can score with that second units so there isn't any stagnation. I see him being the primary backup 2 as all the other guards are big and guard the stronger opposing guard. So who will Coach slot in that 9th and last spot? McDermott or Mirotic I suppose. We won't know for another month or more. But both are darn good to be your last guy in! Matt MikuliceSam: Thibs likes vets; most coaches like vets. Popovich doesn’t play rookies very often. Neither are the Cavs. It does look like Brooks is working his way into that eighth spot and as I’ve speculated McDermott as well for eight or nine. A veteran coach like Thibs who relies on his veterans also doesn’t like to tell them why they’re not playing. Yes, it is a team with the one for all and all for one stuff. But guys want to play, especially veterans. It’s much easier to sit rookies and young players, who don’t get to complain about minutes if they are not named Dion Waiters. Forget who starts; it’s who finishes that’s important.  Of course a lot depends on match-ups and who’s hot, but generally speaking, who do you see as the finishing five? Do you see Butler moving to the 3 at the end of games to go with Noah & Gibson as three defensive stoppers, then add McDermott & Rose for O? Or can Gibson move to the 3 against many SFs, giving them a finishing five of Noah/Gasol/Gibson/Butler/Rose? Stu GilbertSam: I think it was a different issue last season with Gibson finishing. Boozer basically did his first three seasons and there was less pressure on Thibs about not finishing with Boozer, who obviously was on the way out.  I do think Thibodeau will go by circumstances—if they need defense or scoring, though if you are losing you can say your best chance to get back in is by stopping the other team—but he is a defense first coach. Which doesn’t necessarily mean Noah and Gibson. Pau didn’t come here to sit on the bench, so this isn’t going to be easy for Thibs since he doesn’t see Gibson playing any small forward. With Noah’s knee surgery, I think they’ll use that to limit Noah’s playing time, at least early in the season, though we knew Jo likes to play as well. And, frankly, even as Noah was all-NBA first team last season, his responsibility changes with Rose back and Pau added. In many respects, it makes sense to finish with Pau and Gibson since Pau can score the best and can be a shot blocker. I just think Thibs mixes and matches with no set finishers. After watching their first preseason game, man, if Kyrie and Love stay healthy they are the 2015 champs. Mike SuteraSam: Well, they are the favorites as I’ve seen the betting lines (just for entertainment purposes of course, like the NFL as if anyone would actually have a reason to watch Monday night football) and the Cavs are forecast for the most wins. No one wishes ill on anyone else as the Bulls have had more than their share, but Kyrie is out for a few days with an ankle issue, it seems. Not serious, which is good. The Cavs are the favorites and the Bulls have done best as the hunter. It should make for an entertaining season. I’m sure you noticed this but John Wall did ZIP while Derrick was in the game.  He may have had one rebound but no points and no assists.  He “feasted” (if you can call 1-for-7 for 8 points feasting) on Brooks and Hinrich just like he did in the playoffs on Hinrich and D.J.  I looked up their previous match-ups and Derrick is 4-0 and has statistically destroyed Wall. Marc BrauerSam: Yes, the Rose guy. He’s good. It’s an interesting dynamic I saw developing when Rose was healthy. Though he doesn’t say much, there’s an intimidation factor he maintained over a lot of the top guards. Being faster than them helps. He’s always made Chris Paul look terrible and was having his best game last season against Lillard when he got hurt. I don’t think Wall ever tried to shoot until Rose left the game. I do think it’s where that lack of sociability, Rose’s arm’s length relationship with opponents, plays a part. Rose has been criticized for it as it somehow prevents top players from coming to the Bulls, which is nonsense as we saw again this summer with all that Carmelo Anthony recruiting. These guys know Rose isn’t their friend and wants to beat them. They don’t like that. It’s the way you should want your best players. Jordan did it a different way, but to the same effect as he’d socialize with some players, but only on his terms and with him the dominant figure. Who do you think will be the player that replaces Carlos Boozer in all the fake trades from Bulls fans?  I actually can’t think of anybody that will be deserving of the Boozer treatment (though to be fair, I didn’t think Boozer was deserving of it either), which I suppose speaks to the way this team has been constructed.  A couple of guesses are D Rose (if he shows he is the player he was pre injury) and Dunleavy (people may say that we need a “true” shooting guard so that Butler can move over to the three). David SimonSam: I think it becomes Mike, though in his last season and with a small salary that can’t bring back any high level player it’s just as ridiculous a notion as all those Boozer trade scenarios I can’t believe I answered. I want those two years of my life back. I’m even retiring my unofficial Monday Morning GM title I received from Jerry Krause after suggesting trades in my NBA notes column. Of course, what was I thinking with those potential dynasties Krause was assembling in the early 2000s? This is your Bulls team for 2014-15 and I don’t believe there will be any serious even consideration of a move until after the season depending on how far the team goes in the playoffs. Now if there’s a veteran shooting guard available for a minimum salary, well, there could be an addition. I personally like the acquisition of Gasol and am excited to watch him this season. However after seeing the first preseason game, if Mirotic develops, I can’t help but think of what happens next year? There is not enough room with 4 quality starters to give everyone meaningful minutes and Gasol is signed for three years. What happens if Mirotic becomes a budding star? I can’t help but wonder if we would have been better off investing in someone who could play SG like Trevor Ariza or Paul Pierce in free agency. I think Gibson would do excellent in the starting lineup, butler could slide to SF, and that would open up minutes for Mirotic to develop. Jonathan JesperSam: You should have waited until after the second preseason game to write. What is the yellow tag on the back of the neckline for the Bulls' jersey? Ian Dela CruzSam: It’s a new addendum to the jersey for teams that have won a championship, though since the Kings can also wear it for Rochester’s 1951 title, which means DeMarcus Cousins is wearing a jersey that designates a champion, it seems to defeat the purpose. Plus, you know what champions look like. If you have to tell someone you defeat the ideal. But you can be sure commercial advertising is coming soon as if you can have that sort of championship “badge” and hardly anyone notices, what’s a swoosh or two here or there. You seem to be posting a lot more frequently this year, between the World Cup and new-player profiles, and now back to the mailbag. That's all great, but I'm worried that you might break down in the early going, and split an infinitive or dangle a modifier. Should we consider limiting your minutes? Peter MooreSam: When Thibs demands we do our jobs it often seems unclear who exactly he is looking for. Uh oh.

The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.Are these Gerald Green trade rumors real, or are they just fake like the rest of the rumor mill?Shaun ChalmerSam: These kids are stealing my fake rumors. It’s just media speculation, like with Rondo and trying to guess which teams might make sense. With the addition of Isaiah Thomas for some reason and bringing back Eric Bledsoe long term the Suns are loaded with guards now. Green had a breakout season playing a lot, though he’s still a bit Lance Stephenson-esque. So if he doesn’t play as much there could be issues. It’s a reasonable guess to presume he could be traded as they’ll certainly keep Dragic and Bledsoe and no one’s taking all that Thomas salary. So the Suns are stuck there. They resigned probably one more Morris than they needed and they like Archie Goodwin. Green’s not going to be quiet in a reduced role. He had a terrific season last season and the Bulls, sure, don’t have a true shooting guard. Thus the guess. But Green’s nowhere even close to defending like Jimmy Butler and a not the kind of showboat player non-defender Thibodeau likes. Doesn’t seem like a match to me.Is there any danger of Snell not making the team?  I'm hearing many in the Chicago media talk a lot about how he's now the "forgotten man".  I hope that's not case, because while I know he's still raw I still think he has a fruitful career ahead of him. Rahul ChatterjeeSam:  I expect him to have a fruitful career with the Bulls. Just not with a big kick start this season. Not everyone can play, and Thibodeau clearly has taken a liking to McDermott and Mirotic. That’s a positive as many speculated Thibodeau would not play rookies, but he seems comfortable using both and I’d expect McDermott, at least, to play good minutes this season. Snell with little playing time last season is almost another rookie with a veteran team with large expectations. That’s the forgotten man stuff, as someone has to be. Perhaps Mirotic at times as well. The D-League is the interesting part as if Snell isn’t playing it might make sense and help his confidence to let him play in the D-League and develop rather than wasting a season on the bench. There’s no shame playing there and for first round picks there’s no cut in pay. Duncan and Parker are not coming from knee surgery.  Can Noah and Rose count on regular season rest?  I do not understand the pressure. William BlancoSam: This is the Bulls’ relentless and regular chicken and egg: Can you win a title if no one actually plays? This would be the coach’s point. You can’t keep resting guys and then be ready for high level competition. The critics say if you play them that much they wear out and cannot perform at crucial times. Though Popovich is most referenced because the Spurs have been successful, he’s the exception. Most coaches are more like Thibodeau than Popovich in playing their best players the most minutes. This also is a zero sum game. When the team loses, it’s asked why you left out your best players so long. Plus, there is no scientific basis ever that has suggested what is the proper amount of playing time. Thibs’ proponents point to the top 10 players of all time, who basically averaged 40 minutes or more in their primes. Critics point to injuries and say, ah ha! Thibs has been consistent from his first day as head coach. He’s playing his best players the longest and believes in playing yourself into the playoffs rather than easing your way there. The Bulls chose to give him an extension. Management decides who is on the roster; the coach decides who plays and how much. That will conclude this discussion for today, class. Following immediately on the heels of that realization (of the potential of Rose and Butler) is the recognition that the fulfillment of their performance together (Rose and Butler) is threatened by injury that will limit one or both of them.  It’s my contention that coaches do not possess an accurate understanding of the equation of superior conditioning of pro athletes today versus body fatigue that accumulates over years of intense play, a part of which is overly long schedules and back-to-back games, sometimes three days in a row.   Or, alternatively, the coaches are indeed aware, but the pressures for winning in a current season blind them too much to the broad health picture of their players. Rich PlattSam: More life or earth? The peach or the peach basket? I prefer the story of what was believed to be the first basketball game ever played which was not in 1892 in the Springfield Y but in Mexico in the 1500s with instead of a ball the teams using the skulls of their conquered foes. Talk about your bad bounces. But I digress. Injury is part of the game, as we so often hear. Next man up and all that. But the pressures and demands are mutually exclusive. The pressures of winning, which everyone demands, require you use your most talented players the longest. Again, take out Popovich. He has unemployment insurance: He cannot be fired. Everyone else can be. So why rest your players so the next coach has fresher players to use? No coach wants any of his best players to be injured. That hurts his team and him, as well. Players want to play. The best ones hate sitting out and generally ask back in. All our takes of great “heart” and being a competitor are about playing and performing beyond expectations. Should Jordan have played when he was ill in 1997? Seems irresponsible. You make the best judgments you can weighing success and prevention. No one truly has come up with the right formula. We generally check who had the most success and decide they did it correctly. And like the old saying goes, Don’t dribble on the nose. You never get a true bounce. With the 31st looming fast, any idea what Jimmy Butler’s choice will be, or are us fans still going to be left in the dark? Kieron SmithSam: Trick or treat, eh? Remember, this isn’t sign or lose Butler since he can only become a restricted free agent next summer with the Bulls able to match any offer. You say they didn’t match on Asik. True, but that was because they had Noah starting at center. They have no other shooting guard. The Bulls love Jimmy (they generally love their picks, especially ones who looks so good as Butler was last in the first round) and Butler loves the Bulls and Chicago despite the lack of good country music and cowboy boots stores. It’s a lot like the Taj Gibson situation. Gibson maybe could have gotten more money if he became restricted and went onto the open market. But that means taking a chance for a year on not being injured and potentially risking a lifetime of financial security. Nothing bad generally happens, but then you could be Jay Williams. Life has no guarantees. Basketball neither. It’s not greed. Everyone deserves to make as much as they can. I don’t know many unselfish bankers. OK, I never heard of one. You can bet on yourself. Better than football betting. But how much is enough, especially when you have a great job in a great city where you love being? I’m sure the Bulls will make Butler a nice offer that basically guarantees if he’s not stupid he’ll be rich for life. But I’m also sure his advisors will show him how much more money players of lesser or equal talent signed for. In the end, it should be the decision of one person, Jimmy Butler. Which means no one will or should know until one person makes his decision. He should do well no matter what he decides. We hear the "in contention" words thrown around often; however, is that satisfactory for Bulls fans? Had everyone (primarily Derrick) remained healthy during the last two seasons, maybe we could make a case for making it to the NBA finals. In our current situation (with age the primary factor), I don't believe we have the luxury to sell the idea of "being in contention". Derrick, Jimmy, Kirk, Taj, and Joakim, have helped maintain the continuity and core values of this team. Pau, McDermott, Mirotic, Brooks, et al. are here to fill the talent void. In short, we can't afford to wait any longer. Patience is great, but do you see as I, a fire sale if we do not win it all this year? How long can we throw the word "potential" with aging (and perpetually injured) players? This has to be "The Season".Greg MendelSam: Sorry, but I don't get this attitude. In contention is as good as you can get in sports; fire sale means you become the Celtics or the 76ers. I don't get this view of throwing everyone overboard if things don’t go well or you don’t have ultimate success. That's what the Bulls did in 1999 and it took maybe 9 years to even be a regular playoff team. That fire sale thing basically never has worked anywhere and is a wrongheaded view of trying to build a team. The 76ers have so humiliated the game the NBA is being forced the change the lottery system because of their felonious behavior with a system that wasn’t broken. I think the Bulls have done an impressive job of putting together a contending team that, of course, requires the good health of Derrick Rose, whom they lucked into in the draft. See, that’s the point of this fire sale thing that’s so misguided. Yes, building through the draft is the best way to success, but you have to be extremely lucky in the draft and to be in the right one. Look at the Thunder with Durant, whom the fell into because they didn’t have No. 1. As terrific as Anthony Davis is, it’s his third season and his team had to bottom out previously and has been poor for two seasons with him. No, the Bulls window isn’t tremendously long because no one’s is. Everyone likes to point to the Spurs because they have been so successful. How about the Lakers or Celtics? Where do you think the Heat will be the next 10 years? And the Spurs were out in the first or second round three straight years with an old team before making it to the Finals the last two years just because they had patience, didn’t overreact and understood they were in contention every season and deciding your window was closed because others said it was wasn’t worth considering. I actually see this Bulls group with the influx of young players like McDermott and Mirotic in position with this core with some changes year to year as contracts expire to be together for five or six years, at least. Championship or not. If you as a fan can hear your team is in contention most every season you are a very fortunate fan. You should treasure what you have now because you can end up with a lot worse. How much credit, if any, does Boozer get for Taj's offensive development?  As horrible as Boozer is on defense he is one of if not the most skilled big men if you ask me. We may not have seen a lot of it as Bulls fans or it was just overlooked because of the horrible team defensive skills. But I feel he had to have something to do with the improved offensive game from Gibson and if that's the case then I guess he was worth that contract after all.  We got some decent years out of him despite his poor defensive efforts and a solid offensive mentor/coach.  If only he could have learned some defense from Taj we would have been sitting pretty and he may still be on the Bulls. Brandon ReveringSam: No “How could they let Boozer go?” emails yet. Taj put in the work, and it did take some time, but, I agree, I think Boozer helped. Taj often pointed toward watching Boozer’s game and Boozer does have good footwork and is excellent on clearing space. He didn’t always commit to the move and accepted the outside shot. Though the other big development for Taj was he finally developed confidence with that shot. I believe working with Boozer helped there as well for Taj. The Boozer signing was not a mistake. Boozer gave the Bulls solid production and with him they had the league’s best record in consecutive seasons and were one of the winningest franchises in the NBA his four years as a starter. That hardly suggests failure or a mistake. Derrick Rose had been coined a scoring guard because of necessity, with more options now on offense how do you see his roll changing? Will he average double digit assists? Are the Bulls a better team if Derrick is shooting less or are they still reliant on his scoring? Tim KoncelSam: The Bulls have more offensive variety and versatility and options to choose from. And Rose doesn’t have to score quite as much or be the focus of every offensive play. Though he still has to be the team’s most important offensive player. And he still has to be that scoring point guard for the team to have great success. I’ve heard all this great stuff about Gasol and McDermott and others taking scoring responsibility, and it’s true there is help. But Rose is the team’s best player; he’s primarily an offensive player, though he is better defensively, and if he’s not scoring at a high rate, even if not quite like before, I don’t see the team doing all that well. I hope Thibs keeps starting Dougie.  MD would make the 2nd unit stronger - not having two rookies on the court at the same time is important.  I Like MD a lot but DM is already more dynamic - can create his own shot, get to the line and is a far better rebounder, which is going to be very important against the Cavs in particular.  That said you know how Thibs supports his vets.  And while DM will grow as the season progresses he will be a rookie all over again in the playoffs. Chris MooreSam: It’s a reasonable point about the playoffs. Obviously, I’ve made several suggestions about McDermott starting even if I don’t fully expect it immediately. But then you ask yourself if you want to go into the playoffs with a rookie. As no doubt Thibs will point out, you don’t find that often on title teams. Sure, Magic, but McDermott probably is not likely to be top 10 alltime in the NBA. I do think McDermott at some point is the starter. Perhaps with injury; maybe to balance the second unit. But if Thibs goes to an eight or nine player rotation, Mirotic probably is out. And it’s still tough to see where his front court minutes come in, anyway. Then maybe McDermott and no other rookie is fine with the reserves as his and Dunleavy’s minutes probably will be similar. Thibs will go with the hot hand to close. Nikola Mirotic is obviously shining right now. Is there any chance that Taj can slide over to the 5 spot to backup Jo so that Nikola can get more playing time? Caden JangSam: There obviously are occasions you can play smaller, but that unit with Gibson and Mirotic playing together in preseason hasn’t been very good. The Bulls have the best size and defense in the NBA with Noah and Gasol. Gasol is a much better defender than given credit for because he played in L.A. where it wasn’t much practiced or demanded the last few years. It wouldn’t make much sense to take away from that and play so many guys out of position to give extra time to a rookie even if he is more experienced than most rookies. There’s no rush with Mirotic. And as much as everyone would like it, there always are injuries. As Thibs says, you have to be ready; next man up. With a healthy D Rose do we have the nucleus to win 60+ games this year?Antwan WardSam: I would think not. Though at this point I think it’s clear the Bulls have a potential contender and there’s no reason to push for best record and home court, which seemed to wear on Indiana last season. It was different four years ago when the Bulls weren’t sure what they could do and did take some by surprise. That’s not happening anymore. It doesn’t mean you can pull your foot off the pedal as just because people say you are top four you still need to win the games. But anywhere around 50 to 55 wins is a nice season and puts you in position to make a challenge for a title. Just a stray thought -- Scott Skiles caught some grief for saying about Tyrus Thomas "We ask him to sprint the floor. To my knowledge in his career he hasn't done it one time. Not one time." But I see TT is no longer with Charlotte, so the 6'1" SS played for 10 years in the NBA and 6'9" TT played for 8. One of them made the most out of little talent; the other made the least out of a lot of talent. I think there might be a lesson there. Stu GilbertSam: My first Tyrus mention of the season. You had it right and it should be the topic of rookie orientation: It’s up to you. It applies to everything and not just basketball. Care, be committed and demand excellence of yourself every time you go to work and you’ll have a better and longer career. Of course, I’m often stumped as Tyrus’ answer is he’s a multi-millionaire, no longer ever has to work and basically didn’t give a crap. I’m still working that one out. Just wondering your opinion on why the Bulls always seem to whiff on the big fish in the free agency pool? We went for T-Mac and Duncan in 2000 (if my memory serves me correctly) and ended up with Ron Mercer (bad) and Brad Miller (decent), had a crack at Wade and LBJ in 2010 and ended up with Boozer (decent for a season or two) and this offseason went hard at Melo and ended up with Gasol (will be good for two seasons I’m thinking). Is it our history and legacy of championships and MJ combined with Chicago fans expectation that is scaring off potential pick ups? Or is there something else at play here? Marcus LingSam: You mean like all the free agents who have lately gone to the Knicks and Mavs and Lakers?  The year 2000 was different considering the team’s poor record and the generally unrecognized greed that probably cost them McGrady. McGrady probably would have signed, but Krause became convinced at the last minute they could get Duncan and Hill and who knows what and McGrady got turned off. Everyone went for LeBron in 2010 and we all know by now that was settled long before free agency. The Bulls did have a shot at Anthony this summer and basically no one else did. I guess that’s progress. There are factors like weather, though Pau was an impressive pickup given the Knicks, Lakers, Spurs and Thunder all went for him and he signed for less money than he could have made elsewhere to come to the Bulls. So your complaint should be moot now. But there is an element the Bulls have now which could be a huge positive in free agency: The Advocate Center practice facility. The Bulls are now in the only major American city where you can live downtown and play and practice there for an NBA team. Not with New York or Brooklyn, who practice in the suburbs with long drives; not in L.A., where there is no downtown to live by the arena. It should become a major recruiting tool for the Bulls that is unique in the U.S. How high up do LeBron's powers really go? The last 2 players to beat him out for the MVP award have been stricken with injuries the following year. I know Durant's injury isn't as serious as Rose's. Yet. But don't be surprised if Durant misses extended time with more injuries this year. For LeBron truly is the chosen one and anyone who beats him out for an NBA award shall be cursed forever! Billy HabibiSam: Now you really are scaring me.

With Rose returning off injury and the way this team plays physical and fast I do see a good chance at competing for a title as we did in 2011. Like anyone else that loves and studies the game I do see that it is not going to be easy for any team in the east this year to be run away favorites. But after listening at some of our critiques for the past few years repeatedly expressing the fact that we need that one piece or more help to get over the hump because we just don't have enough scoring in a player(s) that can creative for himself and others besides Rose, I'm starting to realize the same things after watching opening night vs. the Heat. If the Bulls where to pursue any trades this year, who do you see us going after to bring more help to Rose and how do you feel trading for Arron Afflalo or someone like a Klay Thompson/Jamal Crawford?Jarrel GibsonSam: I’ve gotten various versions of this question since the opener. Along with pleas for Nate Robinson’s return. Nate, by the way, is in Denver with a two-year deal. The Bulls looked at him for a limited role, but he wanted more and they were more committed to Hinrich and Dunleavy off the bench. Anyway, it’s not like the Bulls do not know this. No one internally is coming into the season believing this is a team that will win. I agree, it can. But it also could go out in a heck of a second round series as a couple of really good teams will. The Bulls could use another big man, and they tried this summer with Marcus Camby and Elton Brand, and they could use more shooting. Which is one reason they went for Dunleavy over Belinelli because Dunleavy has been a better shooter. Give him at least one more game. But there are no trades to be made. If you have a strong roster with highly paid players, like the Bulls do, you don’t have players to trade. OK, the guys you mentioned. Yes, it’s possible they’ll be moved given the circumstances where they are. But for the Bulls it would cost at least Butler and probably Gibson as well. Because of inexperience, age or playing time basically, you cannot get anything for Teague, Snell, Murphy, Mohammed and James. Because of free agency Deng and Hinrich have little value. Because he’ll make more than $16 million next season going on 33 Boozer isn’t of value in this luxury tax era. Dunleavy just turned 33. So your trade “assets” are Rose, Noah, Butler and Gibson. Which one do you want to give up? And if it’s Jimmy, you have to add someone since he makes so little. The Bulls are very good and have a legitimate chance. But they are not perfect. Which is why they aren’t considered the favorite. Not that the Heat wouldn’t like another big man as well.I'm sure you're getting a lot of letters from people assuming the Bulls season is already over because they lost to the Heat opening night. I'd like to remind them of a game less than a year ago. The Heat had a 27-game active win streak coming into Chicago, who was without Derrick Rose and nursing various injuries. Aside from a playoff game, it was probably safe to say the Heat really wanted to win that game to keep the streak going. And the depleted Bulls beat them. At that time, no one said the Heat couldn't win the title because they lost to a deleted Bulls team. Yet somehow, according to several national media types, the fact that a Bulls team whose emotional leader played only 20 minutes in the preseason because of a groin injury that clearly hampered him, a Bulls team who had its two best wing defenders on the bench with three fouls each for the second quarter, a Bulls team that had a rookie picked at #22 called upon to guard LeBron James in his first game, and a Bulls team whose superstar was playing his first real game in over a year lost to the world champions means they can't get past the Heat and win a title. Chris FeldmanSam: Yes, it did mess up a lot of national media observations, but when you send someone to Miami for a game and spend a lot on airfare you need to get more than a game story. You need a what it all means. Since when is media coverage concerned with the long view? Or fan reaction. Actually, most of the Bulls’ fan reaction I received was mostly unfazed, and it helped when the Heat lost to the team those experts predicted could be the worst ever. I'm not hitting the panic button here after 2 games, but one thing that concerns me about this Bulls team compared to the last few Bulls' teams is the lack of depth.  Our second units were usually a major strength and we often went 10 deep with guys you could legitimately put in most team's rotations.  I'm looking at the bench this year and seeing Taj, Dunleavy, Hinrich... and that’s it.  And Capt. Kirk always seems one play away from missing the next 2 weeks.  In my opinion our starting five is the best we've had since the Jordan era, but it seems one of the strengths that took us to the NBA's best record in  2 of the last 3 seasons is now a weakness.  Am I wrong?  Please set me straight. Dan MichlerSam: Well, uh, it doesn’t look too deep as yet, does it? But those things tend to change as Thibodeau warms a bit to guys as the season goes on. Asik wasn’t playing until Noah got hurt, and then when Noah returned he played more. I’m not sure what the issue is with Teague as I thought he could fill a role. These weren’t great teams to start for Mohammed as the Heat don’t use a center and the Knicks went to multiple small guard lineups with Anthony at power forward. But, yes, the Bulls played eight against New York and you need to see more. I also think Mike James can take some minutes and will as well as Snell, though two games in I don’t consider the final roster spot set yet. Klay Thompson (shooter) for Jimmy Butler (driver). Thompson & Rose. Curry & Butler. It benefits both teams. Atif HassanSam: Of course, it’s ridiculous as they traded for Iguodala so they could more feature Curry and Thompson and Thompson is an untouchable to them. Though I thought it would be good for Jimmy to know if he were getting a big head (he’s not) after a 1-1 start, some fans want him gone. Having watched the Bulls' first two games, I've been pretty disappointed with our offense. I realize that it will take a while for the Bulls to adjust to playing with Rose and for Rose to shake his rust off, but it's been a pain to watch our half-court offense consist of just slow ball movement at the top of the key or getting trapped on the baseline and then someone having to go one-on-one at the end of the shot clock to force something up. Which brings me to my question: why don't the Bulls go to Boozer more?? Even dating back to last season, I still don't understand why we don't try to force the ball inside to him to get spacing for cutting and threes or just use him in pick-and-rolls a lot more, which we know he's good at running. Against Miami he scored 31 points going 13-18 from the field and against the Knicks he was doing really well but for some reason only ended up with 7 shots (of which he made 5). I just feel like he's one of the few players on our roster who can be a consistent scoring threat, and it's a shame he's being under-utilized. Vinay NagarajSam: That’s it; trade Jimmy and feature Booz. Being serious, it’s a good point. Boozer has looked very good in the post both games, and yes, the Bulls have tended to go away from that and back to their deliberate game to wait for the screen to materialize and then are stuck with the ball. But we’re going with the it’s only two games and as Thibodeau lamented many times after the Knicks game no one is practicing. Plus, the shooting is as bad as it’s been in years. So two games is too small a sample for now. But if it’s three…I wrote you in the preseason saying that Boozer looked better than ever, well at least while with the Bulls. Against Miami he went off, but that's not what I’m talking about. His positioning, foot work and keeping his head on swivel. I don't know what he did differently in the off season but he seems more aware, ready and focused on the small things that put you into position for success.  And I believe that when Noah gets his legs and timing back he and Boozer will be very dangerous in the paint. Dusty Kaster Sam: Booz love. It’s everywhere. Yes, if only the Bulls could practice. Practice? Practice! Very revealing Miami game.  As a homer, though all the naysayers pointed out the lack of a second option, I remained confident.  The last playoff series against the Heat showed us what to do: Rose just needed to get a jumper or a floater that would neutralize the big men waiting for Rose to try and score.  Well, that will still work.  We can still win a championship.  The only things that needs to happen is for Rose to hit all those shots. Like all those shots.  That’s the problem; we don’t control our destiny.  I remember when Popovich was being interviewed after the Heat won the championship last year.  I didn’t catch what he meant then but now I do.  He said that when Shane Battier started hitting 3s, it was too much for his team.  I get it now.  If we’re going to win, we need extraordinary performances from people to win.  Dunleavy needs to get hot like Danny Green did for them last year.  Jimmy Butler needs to take over 2 games and give us 26 and 10.  Noah needs to have an offensive performance like he did during Game 7 against Brooklyn last year. All that is possible.  It’s just not in our control.  We’d have to hope they get hot; that they find a telephone booth and be their best selves in that game on that day.  It’s all possible.  It’s just not likely.  No matter what happens this season, I know we need another scorer to win a championship.  Short of an acquisition/trade, we’re just wishing and praying.  This time, the league’s best record won’t fool me.  Beating Miami in 3 straight games won’t mean jack.  The only way we win is for Rose to be Rose and Noah, Jimmy, Taj, Lu, etc. be someone else.  Because if they’re their regular selves, it’s over. Joseph HollisSam: And that is possible, but that has been the point I’ve been making about the Bulls can win it, which doesn’t mean they will. Things have to go right, which is more than good health. That’s the same way it was for the Jazz and Suns and Knicks and Sonics and Trail Blazers in the 1990’s. They were really, really good teams. But the Bulls had the best guy. Miami has the best guy. It’s tough to beat the best guy. More think they can this season because he doesn’t have a great second option anymore, or we don’t think he does. That levels the playing field. The Bulls had a strong Pippen until about the end, which was why 1998 became so uncertain and why the team, if not the rest of the world, knew it was over. They knew after that 1997 surgery that Pippen was never the same player again. It’s also why I don’t predict playoffs now. This is the regular season, so you see how that goes. Then you have a gauge to view the post season. If Wade comes into the playoffs strong it’s tough to see anyone beating Miami. But others have a chance, including the Bulls, by playing at a high level. It happens. The Pistons did it in 2004, the Mavericks in 2011 against better teams. Those things can go right for the Bulls as well, but if it were obvious they’d be the favorites. They are not. And not because they didn’t win Tuesday. It seems every time Stern's beloved cash cow the Heat needs a big win, Joey Crawford is the head official.  Opening night he showed once again how the officiating can completely take over a game and dismantle all hopes of a fair contest for the victimized team.  Yes, the Bulls were outplayed, but not until Deng and Butler had to hit the bench on phantom foul calls, while the Heat mauled and hacked at Rose and Boozer.  I'm losing interest in the NBA and sports in general with the manipulated outcomes, closed door draft lotteries, performance enhancing drugs, glamorizing, collusion, etc.  What the hell ever happened to the joy of competition? Bill MarzanoSam: Of course, the irony is the Heat always grimace with Crawford because they believe he’s unfavorable to them. Which is why Joey is such a good official. The officials didn’t decide it. There were some calls that went against the Bulls, like Jimmy’s charge and one on Deng. But the Heat was the aggressor. The aggressors get the calls. It was obvious throughout the Bulls didn’t play with near the passion and enthusiasm that we’d seen them play with against Miami before and even in openers. Not that they seemed intimidated. But after a quick Bulls start, it was the Heat who came the hardest and the Bulls reacted. Miami was the better and more aggressive team in that game, and to the aggressor goes the calls. Could you get the word to acquire Shannon Brown, we need a bench, get these kind of caliber players while they are available… we need a another big body player, or this ship gone sink when the playoffs come, because the starting 5 will be beyond wore out. Ashley GriffSam: Shannon Brown has been the pickup of choice the last week as well. I’m not sure he’d be that interested in a spot mostly behind Hinrich and Dunleavy. But perhaps more so he was with the Bulls early in his career and I recall it being a bad situation where neither side cared for one another. Of course, things change. But Brown isn’t a shooter, anyway. He shot 27.7 percent on threes last season, which would be the poorest on the Bulls. Hinrich’s career three-point shooting average is better than the best season in Brown’s career. Brown’s best season hasn’t even been close to any of Dunleavy’s last three seasons. Plus, the Bulls shooting will improve as Butler gains more confidence in shooting threes. I have also heard get Vince Carter, MarShon Brooks, Reggie Williams, Chris Douglas-Roberts and Derrick Williams of the most prominent of late. Dunleavy clearly couldn’t contain James/Wade.  Marco seemed to do a better job against the big 2.  Or is my memory fuzzy from too many Margaritas at AA Arena? Was that signing a mistake as its easier to get into foul trouble against the Heat? Jeff LichtensteinSam: Very fuzzy. Wade never even learned his name. I know it is only the first game but it only showed the Bulls need a second superstar.  My question to you is are the Bulls all in this year, if they are do you think they would make a trade to get a second superstar, using pieces of deng and the 2016 bobcats draft pick or maybe boozer and the bobcat draft pick, and our first this year for love. They get a power forward and 2 picks for a superstar to pair with rose? Dan CrohnsSam: I answer this in many different ways and am running out of jokes. OK, not really, but there are no superstars to get. None. Doesn’t happen. Never, ever, never getting one in trade or free agency. There are maybe five or six in the entire league. One problem the Bulls have had is being good too long. They lucked out with Rose in the draft. Imagine if they’d have gotten the ninth pick that season which was their odds with the team they have. They have some very good players and enough to win. But they have been very generous to their players and only the Nets have more players making eight figure salaries in the entire league. The Bulls are easily one of the biggest spending teams. Perhaps they’ll eventually have to break that up. But for now they have to go with what they have. Did you notice in the first quarter the refs called Miami for a couple travels that were really not that bad? This really irritated me. It was sterns pathetic attempt to make up for Game 6 of the finals. The Allen 3 in Game 6 was so obvious and blatant. The NBA is a complete joke now. We will never beat the Heat because of this. Wade and James and even Allen are allowed 1 or 2 more steps by the officials, and given more calls. Charles ArmstrongSam: Now, that’s a lot of angst for the first game. All the Spurs had to do with three chances at the end of Game 6 to win a title was have one of three guys make two free throws instead of one each. Then all they had to do was leave Tim Duncan in the game so Chris Bosh would have run back to the three point line and not gotten two offensive rebounds, his career high, or Danny Green had not run out for a layup when they had enough points and LeBron wouldn’t have been open for that wide open three. Miami is beatable; they’re very beatable again. But you have to do it. The league is hardly covering for Pat Riley’s team given he barely even speaks to them. What happened to Rose’s hang nail. I mean neck? Man I love Rose to death but his style of play hasn't changed. It will cause his body to continually break down. That play when he went to the basket against 3 heat players and ended up on the floor that's the plays he needs to stop. He will end up making Kirk look like Cal Ripken. Mike SuteraSam: There’s two different issues here. You have to be who you are. He’s an attacking player who goes to the rim. He’s about the same size as Dwyane Wade, and maybe he’ll begin to break down in six years. But I’m not much for playing cautiously, and I doubt Rose will. The other element is today’s media. Not long ago his sitting out shootaround, next ouchie was never reported because there was no Twitter or internet immediacy and no reporters filing scraps of information all day and fans spending worthless time ruminating over non information. Because by the time the newspaper came out or TV news got to it, it was after the game and Rose had played and sleeping bad on your neck and skipping shootaround was not a story or worthy of mention. It wasn’t Thursday, but no one had anything else to say at the time. Trust me, the reporters would rather not be doing this. We used to go to shootarounds or practices to work on long term, depth stories, find out about the workings of the team and the game plans. Now it’s a race to the cell phone to Tweet a comment about a potential injury. I understand the decline of the media and this is supposedly hits for advertising to keep the businesses alive, and I’m for that. But you are not getting as good a reporting as you once did because so many of these good basketball reporters are being turned into injury update people. There are two ways to look at the opening loss to Miami with regards to Rose's sitting out last season.  Maybe Rose was right, and practice is different than playoff games just like preseason is different than regular season games.  If Rose came back last year, even though he looked good physically, he would not have been effective.  The other way to look at it is that any one sitting out for months will need time, mentally and physically, to get back.  If Rose came back last year, he would have shaken at least some of that rust off. Which do you think is a more accurate way of looking at it? Joe RulfSam: So what was Luol Deng’s issue shooting two of eight with three turnovers? Rose was not rusty. He basically was defended by two and three guys on every possession as the Heat, seeing a rookie and non scorers on the floor in the second quarter with the Bulls in foul trouble, pretty much dared anyone else to score. And no one could make a shot. Other than the second quarter, the score was Bulls 77 Heat 70. Rose is fine. Stop asking! With so many teams looking to tank to get that No.1 for next year’s strong draft class. Can or has the league ever stepped in to do anything about this? Why can't the NBA step in and fine the organization for obvious tanking in games? Sure a team can flush out their roster in the chance of giving them no chance in winning but if we see games when the 76sers are up 10 against the Bulls with 2 minutes to play and then bench their starters then I'll be very very disappointed. Even faking injuries or shutting down players from playing should be judged by the NBA if they smell foul play. Andrew BrownSam: Players and coaches don’t tank seasons. Only general managers do. The coach loses his job if they lose too much; the players don’t get better deals if they lose too much. You only need see the 76ers and Suns, two supposedly tanking teams, winning opening night. But there are teams that build this way, which is a perfectly respectable way of doing it because for the most part you build through the draft. Even Boston with its aging Big Three that won acquired those players with draft picks. Eventually, you have to take a fall. You hope the draft you are in is a good one. This season’s looks like it. With the new collective bargaining agreement, which has punitive restrictions for going over the cap, the era of big threes and big spending seem over. The Thunder traded Harden, Bosh likely leaves after the year, even the Lakers excess is being reeled in. There seems like there are two ways to go with new collective bargaining, one star with good solid pieces (Dallas, Pacers, Knicks, Golden State) or two superstars with complementary pieces (Thunder, Clippers, Brooklyn before they broke the bank). Which would you prefer if we can't keep Deng? Go with Rose, Jimmy, Snell?, Taj, Noah or leverage the assets and go for an unhappy star, Aldridge, Love, Horford? I have no idea. Jantzen SuanSam: This is going to be a big question facing everyone as the new punitive tax is going to be hitting teams these next few season and unusual decisions will be made. Though you don’t really know until you see how others are making them and which players will be available. There’s a large sea change coming in the NBA that no one truly knows the effects. Since the Bulls don't have great offensive weapons, has the team ever considered hiring an offensive guru as a bench coach?  If Miami continues to double team Derrick we could use someone who could design some plays to free him up. Anthony LeggettSam: This isn’t football. They don’t stop after every possession and draw up the next play. It’s a game in which offense and defense flows naturally from one end to another. The Bulls have toyed at times with a so called “offensive” assistant. But it’s different in the NBA, especially with the Bulls. The coach calls the plays. Thibs starts every season with more than 700 from the books I’ve seen of previous seasons. He knows offense. But the larger issue is like many coaches who are among the elite, his philosophy dominates. How come Mike D’Antoni doesn’t have a defensive coordinator? How come Mike Brown doesn’t have an offensive coordinator? A coach’s greatest value, in my view, is less x’s and o’s, less plays, than setting an environment or culture as teams like to say now, getting players to believe in themselves, putting them in position to succeed, developing a relationship in which they’ll trust and perform and getting them to commit to your belief and carry it out. Thibs does that well despite his unique methods. How come soccer doesn’t have more offensive coordinators given if you could score five goals you’d never lose? Marcus Camby was waived by the Houston Rockets, do you think the Bulls would try to pick him up? He would be a good back up behind Noah and Nazr? Bruce dela cruzSam: The first thing is I believe he’s having plantar fascia surgery, which would keep him out for some time. The Bulls did try to get him last summer. But he seems to be hanging around the Rockets, which suggests they have one of those wink wink things that when he is healthy they’ll take him back. His salary is guaranteed this season, so he loses nothing and his family lives in Houston and appealed to him last summer to stay there. He hardly seems in play for anyone. I know you get millions of these, so I'll cut to the chase: hypothetically, if the Bulls were to move Lu after the season, would a sign-and-trade to a team be a feasible option? Ed DuckworthSam: That’s not the point. It’s not about moving Deng. It’s about signing him. If there were no financial issues to a signing, they’d rather keep him. The financial issues will be the question with all the moving pieces involving Mirotic, potential free agents, Hinrich, a first rounder and a growing luxury tax as the Bulls have been among the league highest payrolls the last two seasons. Most tend to think that with Derrick winning MVP, he should have a fairly good chance on getting into the HOF. My question is, if our team can get a ring or two, what about Noah? With 2 NCAA rings, a NBA ring and a possible DPOY in the future, could he nudge himself in there? Julian HayesSam: Noah’s story is amazing from the player he was as a kid to as many honors and accomplishments as he’s had already. Rose will need a very good career for the next five or six years to make his case, which is hardly assured. It’s very difficult for players who are not high scorers, especially in this era. There are so many guys lining up with 20-plus scoring averages who won’t get in that it’s not likely, though Jo certainly will qualify for the love of life hall of fame.

With the Cavs reportedly very interested in Deng and the Bulls with a very high chance of losing him for nothing after this season can you see GarPax pulling the trigger on a trade that sends Deng to the Cavs as a rental for Waiters? There’s a lot of DWade in Waiters’ game and he would no doubt excel on this team plus it gives us a #2 future scorer and a legit sg.Steve Lewis
Sam: This is only the beginning. Because of the loss of Rose for the season and with fan and media hysteria that the Bulls should/will trade Luol Deng rather than potentially lose him as a free agent this summer (funny the Heat and Knicks aren’t rushing to trade LeBron James or Carmelo Anthony for the same reasons), the Bulls will be included in just about every trade scenario for the next three months. Oh no! “ESPN had a report…”, which is the sports media version of the dog ate my homework. Interesting reading, though. The Cavs have denied the report they are shopping Waiters, which, of course, means nothing as what else would they say. It makes sense they might as Waiters either beat up their best player, Kyrie Irving, in a team meeting, or tried to and was restrained. Which might make you hesitate some, anyway. And, yes, the Cavs could use a small forward. And, yes, if you were the Bulls, though I have said I’d retain Deng, you’d have to strongly consider a high lottery pick for a potential free agent. If it had any truth to it. Yes, it sounds like someone was playing with the ESPN trade machine again. If the Cavs GM isn’t in trouble, he certainly would be if he traded last year’s No. 4 pick in the draft and a productive player for a rental free agent who’d probably leave on the team after the season. Plus, there’s more than a $10 million difference in salary, meaning the Bulls would have to take on two and maybe three players, like Alonzo Gee and Earl Clark, both of whom have contracts for next season, basically making you the Cavs without their better young players. Then the Bulls would be stuck beyond this season with salaries. So then they maybe can’t bring over Nikola Mirotic and have to amnesty Boozer, anyway. All that for a player who may try to kill your best player? Right, only maybe. This is just the first shot across the trade bow. Yes, m’laddie, show your colors! Not having been in more than a row boat coming from New York City, who speaks nautical better than me? Anyway, my mail this week since the Rose injury mostly suggests there has been among Bulls watchers a shortage of antidepressants, available psychologists and shock therapy. So I’ll deal with some of the most prominent trade suggestions. And, yes, these were the ones that made the most sense.My trade idea is Carlos Boozer, Bulls #1 this year, and the Charlotte pick to Philadelphia for Evan Turner and Thaddeus Young.  Taking Boozer’s extra year would not be that painful plus they need salary ballast to meet NBA minimum team salary next year.  I think they could do better if they split up Turner and Young but they tried to trade Turner for a #1 last year and were unsuccessful.  They get two #1s in this trade. Bulls get Turner who can make plays with the dribble while Young seems to be a nice fit as a versatile forward.  Thanks for listening; hope you don’t think this is too far off. Rod Blunck
Sam: This one is pretty much opposite of what I get. Most fans want the Bulls to dump their veterans and get younger to develop with the notion this group has run its course, which is true in the long run and has logic to it. Turner is a name that comes up a lot and he is a restricted free agent and from Chicago, so probably would sign. But say the Bulls have a bad season or more injuries and miss the playoffs and the Charlotte pick is a lottery pick. So two lottery picks for two guys who generally get the 76ers 30-win seasons? That should help the security of Bulls management. How about this trade: Hinrich and Deng for Bogut and Barnes? Perhaps with rights to Mirotic thrown in for Golden State, they'd be willing to make the move. Ben Kuebrick
Sam: This one’s tough to make out. Why would Golden State take a chance on Deng, who can leave as a free agent in a few months, over Barnes, a high level young small forward on a rookie contract with three years to go? Then they give up their only center whom they love and believe is the final piece toward giving them a chance for a title for yet another free agent who could leave this summer and would have little chance of playing given the All-Star level guards they have. And, of course, the rights to a player who may not come to the NBA. Maybe this wasn’t one of the best, but it wasn’t the worst. If Bulls can acquire  Aldridge for Noah and one of the1st or 2nd year players and then trade Deng for Asik and throw in some guard from Houston, then the new look Bulls would have a front line of Boozer/Gibson, Asik at center and Aldridge playing the other forward spot.  What a monster front line that would be.  Tom Allen
So the Trail Blazers off to their best start in years trade Aldridge off to his best start in his career for Noah, off to a tough start, and after the Trail Blazers acquired center Robin Lopez to support Aldridge, which has worked out obviously well. Then Noah is the Blazers perimeter shooting power forward? And Houston gives up a player they likely hope can fill a hole, like point guard or stretch forward, for a small forward with an expiring deal. I don’t see any holdup. Would the Kings want Deng? They have Jimmer Fredette just taking up space on their bench. What about Deng and Teague and maybe a pick for Thornton and Fredette? Moves Butler to the sf. Giving you Hinrich, Thornton, Butler, Boozer, Noah. Fredette, Snell, Dunleavy, Gibson, Mohammed off the bench. Matthew Eldridge
Sam: It’s tough to figure what the Kings are doing. Again, the obvious issue with Deng is the contract. A lot of teams would love to have Deng, who may be the most in demand free agent next summer as LeBron and Carmelo likely will stay with their teams and Kobe and Paul George already resigned. But no team can afford to give up that much for a player who could walk on them as well. The problem with a guy like Thornton is his huge contract for a guy who has been benched in Sacramento. It’s understandable as they want to play young guys. But he’s also making more than $8 million next season and is just an average shooting guard shooting 28 percent on threes this season and lower than Mike Dunleavy for his career. If you are stuck with that salary, it limits what you can do. Plus, the salaries come up short and you’d still have to add another player from a pretty poor roster. I'm guessing GarPax elects to tank season. Trade Deng, Boozer, Dunleavy, Hinrich for expiring deals and hopefully a couple of picks but mainly to dump salary to avoid paying luxury tax. I only trade Noah if u can get something good in return. Then play Teague, Butler, Snell, Gibson and Mohammed and literally try to lose every game to try to get a top 6 pick in the draft and hope to get lucky and get a top 3 pick and take parker Wiggins or Randle. Team up that pick with Rose, Butler and Mirotic. U probably get the Charlotte pick this year too somewhere in the 11-20 range. Mike Kay
Sam: I actually think that could get them arrested. Of course, this is patently ridiculous as there aren’t teams with enough cap room to absorb those salaries even if they wanted to or give up expiring deals for, what, expiring deals and a big contract like Boozer’s in this era of extensive tax penalties. But there’s an actual issue here beyond the bizarre, unrealistic suggestion. Sport isn’t about just winning. And drunken parties. Sorry. It’s about competing and the values of the games. There isn’t a management or coaching staff not trying to win. But because you do not doesn’t label you a failure or loser. Teams also owe their best performance to their fans and to their league and to the game itself. To do any less is to cheat the institution, and it comes back to haunt you. Players do not want to be associated with organizations that accept failure, that quit on the game and their players. I have never sensed even in the worst Tim Floyd times the Bulls intended to do so. The Bulls talk about winning and positive culture all the time, and it’s also a culture of respect for the game. Sure, they could make a trade and might take a step back at some time. That’s part of the process. But you never, ever quit on a season or a team, especially when you have assembled players who are high level competitors like the Bulls have and a coach and staff who are committed to the best every game. You have made this pact with your fans and paying customers that you will do everything possible to not only put the best product on the court but make sure those players give everything they have toward success every game and deliver an excellent show. To accept anything less is a violation of trust with your community and cannot be tolerated. You go to plays to see great talent perform. They don’t have to win the show. The NBA has the greatest athletes in the world playing a unique game and performing some of the most amazing sports actions you’ll see anywhere. It’s why it’s always worth the price and effort no matter the score. Plus, there’s always a wonderful, unknown story that doesn’t come with a play. You never truly know the outcome. The unexpected happens and makes for wonderful drama. You don’t need to run around with a foam No. 1 finger to have enjoyed a wonderful event. I loved last season with the Bulls when they basically had no chance to win a title, and many others. What about fans from franchises that have never won titles? Should they expect less than complete effort? The Bulls even without Rose have a strong roster of high level, motivated, talented and committed players like Deng and Noah. To sell them out as well would be unfair. I am again looking forward to this season because I have no idea how it will end. But I’m confident these players will make a great effort and put on a good show, and good for them. I’m looking forward to seeing what they can do. Trade Noah for an expiring + a projected lottery pick: I love Noah.  And he is worth $40M through 2015.  Just not to the Bulls.  He’ll be past 30 by contract’s end and does have foot problems which have derailed many a big man’s career as he aged.  Would a team like Utah – that has trouble signing free agents – be interested in an All-Star center for an expiring (Biedrins?)and a likely lottery pick?  I think so. Dan Frystak
Sam: The chances are miniscule of getting even a first round pick in this draft. Lottery pick? Maybe for Durant. This draft should produce some terrific players, but there is no LeBron or Durant, a player to turn your franchise around almost immediately. The problem is the media and fans are saying it is, so teams are basically being held hostage and no gm who wants to keep his job is daring to give up one of those picks. Players like Deng and Noah are valuable; they are All Stars. But they also are system players. If they weren’t, nobody would be suggesting trading them without Rose. They’re more valuable than most No. 1 picks. But the fans of all the lottery teams don’t think so. If you check the local media in those cities, all you see are stories about the lottery prospects. You can sell lottery picks to fans to sell tickets. You have a much harder time doing so with players not named LeBron. Do you think the Bulls would make a play on a Jameer Nelson, Andre Miller or a point guard to fill in for Rose... kind of makes sense because they could help keep the Bulls relevant this year and it may not be a bad idea to let Rose play off a point guard going forward.  Maybe not as much pressure on him. John Rallis
Sam: I agree the Bulls could use another point guard. Finding one is the problem. I think the Magic would like to move Nelson, but he’s owed $8.6 million this season with a $2 million buyout for next season. Who are you giving up making that much? Gibson? Obviously as a young team playing it’s young players it has little interest in veterans and presumably will buy out Nelson after this season. I’m a big fan of Miller’s, but he makes almost $5 million, requiring losing a good player. Plus, he’s on the books for next season as well and the Bulls are trying to retain that flexibility for higher level players. I suspect Denver, a team with playoff aspirations, would probably ask for Jimmy Butler and Tony Snell or possibly Butler and Mike Dunleavy. That’s way too much to give up. As for Deng, they have small forward Gallinari coming back soon from surgery. Do you think Chicago can be able to get Jabari Parker in the draft? Frankie Vane
Sam: Obviously, all this talk of throwing the season is aimed at players like Chicago’s Parker. The way the college season has gone so far he’d be the No. 1 pick in the 2014 draft. There’s a long way and draft workouts to go. But given a strong family background and not in desperate need for money and a bright kid at Duke, there’s been talk Parker could stay in school. It didn’t hurt Tim Duncan’s career to skip being the No. 1 overall pick two years in a row before he graduated. The NBA life isn’t that glamorous with the travel and relentless grind of the games. College is a pretty good deal, especially at a place like Duke. I’d advise my son to seriously consider staying in school for as long as he could. The money always is going to be there. Yes, I know, you could get hurt. But then why doesn’t everyone go to work at 16? Staying longer in college always makes you a better pro. A lot of players who came out of school early, like Kobe and LeBron, will be Hall of Famers. But you have a better chance with a more developed and mature game of truly reaching your potential. It’s tough to do so when you start at 18 or 19. I think Deng would fit in great with the Clippers, but I don’t know what they can offer. The Bulls can probably get a late first round pick for Gibson. Alfredo Rivas
Sam: While Deng is an excellent player, he’s exactly not what the Clippers would want. They have Jared Dudley at small forward, a player like Deng in some sense, though not nearly as good. He’s not a great athlete but a tough guy who will make shots but you don’t isolate to beat you off the dribble. Plus, with Paul and Griffin the Clippers have a big payroll and if anything are cutting back. Gibson’s 28, just coming into his prime and you are giving him away—assuming someone could absorb the salary or give you an expiring deal--for the No. 1 pick in 2015 or 2016? As you are not getting a 2014 pick, even late first, for a reserve player. What this overreaction also continues to fail to take into account is Rose by the prediction of every doctor should return as a high level, excellent player. Sure, he could be hurt again, and perhaps there’s a higher chance given he’s been hurt before. But with a player of that talent level you don’t allow him to play with a makeshift group of draft picks. Virtually every one of these blow-up-the-franchise suggestions I’ve gotten is based on low odds, luck of the draw and seems to me to build in perpetual failure for the franchise. But more than anything, I’m confident Rose will return as a terrific player and I’d hate to see the Bulls panic and surround Rose in his prime years with players who don’t give him a chance to reach his potential. Stephen Fulton
Sam: I knew someone would figure out a way to bring back Ben. Putting together a lot of my mail, I think the consensus Bulls team for the community is Gordon, Nate Robinson, Malcolm Thomas, Andres Nocioni and Daequan Cook. OK, four of five. They’re not letting Ben back under any circumstances. Plus, they considered Taylor in that draft. So now they’re building with second rounders not playing much for Charlotte? Yes, I get the concept: Make Charlotte better to get their pick, 11 or lower, and the Bulls worse to get into the lottery to build your franchise with two low lottery picks, thus making the Bulls the first team since the 1980’s Jazz to build around picks in the teens. Yes, the Jazz lucked out with Stockton and Malone, though few make draft mistakes like that anymore. Billy Habibi
Sam: That’s 30 minutes of your life you’re never getting back. Obviously, the Drummond one is the most ridiculous given they’ve labeled him their hope for the future of the franchise. And I won’t ask why so many people are doing this. On hold for health care? Yes, I see the concept. Take the best young prospects and high lottery picks from teams who are unaware that Deng has an expiring deal and won’t be resigning with them. There is a chance they don’t have cable or watch TV. I’ve heard the Wizards one from fans a few times, and it does make some sense as Porter has been out all season. And the Wizards are anxious to do something this season. But they got badly burned cashing in No. 1 picks for players when they traded the rights to Ricky Rubio for Randy Foye and Mike Miller and I’m pretty sure they’re not doing that again as the new owner said they better not. How about trade Deng, Nazr and Murphy to the Knicks for Shumpert & Bargnani? Bulls get a young, cheap, ball-handling (and defensively sound) two guard they can place next to Rose going forward, and upgrade their back-up centre. Knicks get an All-Star SF to greatly improve their title chances, their defense and their starting line-up, and keep a stretch four option, while (arguably) taking a minor hit at back-up centre. Jay Hearfield
Sam: Can’t go wrong taking Knicks players not named Carmelo. Wow, Bargnani on the books for more than $11 million a year. And while making way less than that, the Raptors tried for more than a year to trade him to the point the gm was saying so publicly. Then everyone made fun of the Knicks for that huge deal, which, of course, would cripple any Bulls chance of having flexibility next summer. Just wondering since he's essentially third string in Denver, any chance the Bulls call and offer a second round pick for Nate? Anyone else similar they could trade for to cover Rose's absence? Ryan Davis
Sam: Since it would require a salary match and since the Nuggets do use Nate and seem to like him and he’s scored in double figures the last five games I assume it would cost you at least Jimmy Butler or Tony Snell. Do you think realistically they should try for Asik and Aaron Brooks for Deng and Boozer or maybe Shumpert and Stoudemire's expiring contract for Deng and/or Boozer? Howard Bealick
Sam: Well, Stoudemire’s contract isn’t expiring and on the Houston deal you’re about $25 million short in matching contracts. But close. Trade Deng and Hinrich to Houston for Asik and Lin.  I think this is actually a feasible scenario that helps both teams.  The Rockets get needed defenders and potentially two starters with great leadership in Deng and Hinrich.  Asik wasn’t fitting with Howard and while Lin has some value as a bench scorer he’s still overpaid slightly.  The Rockets then have the option of resigning or letting both walk in FA so I think the flexibility and team fit would be great selling points for them.  The Bulls get a guy in Lin who could really boost his trade value with more minutes and he could fill the badly needed void as an additional scorer who can create his own shot.  Asik is obviously one of the best defensive centers in the league and fits Thibs’s system and approach while providing insurance for Jo.  The other bonus for the Bulls is that we get Asik and Lin for more than one year should we decide to use them in an effort to win, or simply to trade them without getting nothing (unlike what we are faced with if Deng opts to go elsewhere in the offseason). Kevin Loughlin
Sam: Of course, based on their back loaded contracts you have to pay Asik and Lin a combined $30 million next season. Even Mikhail Prohorov is laughing at you for reckless spending. And Houston potentially ends up with nothing by taking on two players who are unrestricted free agents. So basically they give away their entire free agency class of 2012 they considered one of the best in franchise history. Bulls send Deng and Jimmy Butler to Detroit for Greg Monroe and expiring contract of Charlie Villanuava.  The Bulls then send Joakim Noah to Toronto for DeMar DeRozan.  Detroit would have a solid starting 5 of Drummond, Smith, Deng, Butler and Jennings.  Toronto has been rumored to be looking to deal players since they got a new GM and may like the idea of Jonas Valanciunas and Noah inside.  Adam Schechner
Sam: Boom! The reason there have been rumors about DeRozan is because he’s got a long, large contract, though he’s a high level scorer. I sense, though, they are not looking to deal him. There’s some logic to Monroe for Deng given Josh Smith should be playing power forward. But that’s a heck of a gamble for the Pistons given Deng is an unrestricted free agent. Though I think Toronto would much rather give you Rudy Gay and his humongous contract. What I don’t fully understand is why you can’t move forward with players like Butler and Noah, the latter just 28 and the only All-Star of the players you want to acquire. You may have just seen Noah absolutely dominate Monroe in the Bulls win Wednesday and Monroe say afterward it’s tough for him to play against Noah. And Noah’s not even playing his best now. Plus, what gets forgotten regarding Deng is not only how well he’s played and not yet 30, but depending on the market, who knows what he’ll ask for in salary and there are sign and trades and all sorts of options. Most teams don’t trade now since they either like what they have or have accepted who they are. After the season, you pretty much have everyone involved in deals. Why limit yourself to dealing with the four or five teams who might want to do something now. Could you see a trade involving Noah?  Wouldn't they need a big in return for him?  Would a trade with the Thunder for Adams, Lamb and cap filler be considered? Jim Mills
Sam: Obviously, the money is not close and couldn’t be done. The Thunder clearly is one of the more frugal operations given they gave up James Harden so easily. They are not taking on eight figure contracts and seem thrilled with Adams. I think if you’d take Kendrick Perkins they’d drive him here. The Bulls would trade away Taj Gibson and Luol Deng and take back Eric Gordon and Ryan Anderson. The Pelicans would trade away Ryan Anderson and Eric Gordon and get back Luol Deng and Omer Asik. The Rockets would trade away Omer Asik and get back Taj Gibson. Jerry Becker
Sam: Let me see if I have this right: The Bulls, who are anxiously awaiting stretch four Nikola Mirotic, are trading for stretch four Ryan Anderson, who’ll make about twice as much, and Eric Gordon, who’s missed 123 games in the last three seasons because of knee problems? So they can have a small backcourt with Gordon and Rose, Mirotic probably stays in Europe given the Bulls will have given away his position and the Rockets, who are looking for a stretch four or a point guard, cash in for a post, inside four in Gibson? But that should help the Pelicans pass both the Bulls and Rockets in the coming seasons. Any chance the Bulls amnesty Rose after the season?  Playing 50 games over the past 3 years proves that the Bulls will never be able to build around him.  With him missing the rest of the season the window on this championship run has closed.  Why amnesty Boozer with one season remaining when you can get out from Rose's contract?  Eric Pagnucci
Sam: That’s all, folks!
The National Basketball Association announced today that Chicago Bulls guard/forward Jimmy Butler was selected to the 2015-16 NBA All-Defensive Second Team. For Butler, the distinction marks the third straight season that he has earned All-Defensive Second Team honors. On the year, Butler recorded 110 steals in 67 games (1.64 spg, 18th in the NBA). The feat marked Butler’s third straight season with 100 or more steals in a season. As a result, he joined Norm Van Lier (five straight seasons), Wilbur Holland (three straight seasons), Michael Jordan (two such streaks: seven straight seasons and three straight seasons) and Scottie Pippen (nine straight seasons) as the only players in franchise history to register 100 or more steals in three consecutive seasons.From March 28, 2015 to Jan. 11, 2016, Butler recorded at least one steal in a career-high 44 straight games (prev. 27); it is the second-longest streak by a Bull in the last 30 seasons.Butler, who garnered 18 First Team votes and an overall total of 62 points, was joined on the All-Defensive Second Team by forwards Paul Millsap of the Atlanta Hawks (97 points, 11 First Team votes) and Paul George of the Indiana Pacers (48 points, five First Team votes), center Hassan Whiteside of the Miami Heat (126 points, 44 First Team votes) and guard Tony Allen of the Memphis Grizzlies (121 points, 44 First Team votes).The NBA All-Defensive First Team features forwards Kawhi Leonard of the San Antonio Spurs (260 points, 130 First Team Votes) and Draymond Green of the Golden State Warriors (251 points, 123 First Team votes), center DeAndre Jordan of the Los Angeles Clippers (137 points, 47 First Team votes) and guards Avery Bradley of the Boston Celtics (149 points, 62 First Team votes) and Chris Paul of the Clippers (148 points, 59 First Team votes).Players were awarded two points for each First Team vote and one point for each Second Team vote. Voters were asked to select two guards, two forwards and one center for each team, choosing players at the position they play regularly. Players who received votes at multiple positions were slotted at the position where they received the most votes.

Johnny Bach is basketball history.He knows today's players inside and out, and the generations of players and coaches who came before them. If it's happened on a court, Bach's seen it — if not in person, then at least on film.     A self-described perfectionist who demands precision and toughness, Bach is a Brooklyn-born, World War II Navy veteran who participated in the assault on Okinawa, Japan. After his discharge in 1947, he came home and earned a second college degree. Bach was a Boston Celtic for one year — 1948-49 — and from there began a coaching career that's now stretched into its 51st season.      Technically, a guy's got to be fairly old to accumulate that kind of history. And in the scheme of things, a lot of years have gone by in Johnny Bach's life; he'll be 80 in 2004. But the trim, fit Bach doesn't look, act, or in any way fit the picture of what you might imagine a 79 year old is. The youngest Bulls are awed by him, the older ones appreciate him and the members of the coaching staff know they're fortunate to have him around.     Before this season, Bach spent three seasons as an assistant coach under Doug Collins with the Washington Wizards, after serving as assistant coach under Collins in Detroit from 1996-98. He also spent two seasons on Allan Bristow’s staff with the Charlotte Hornets, from 1994 to 1996.      Prior to his first stint with the Bulls, he took his first coaching job in the NBA, as assistant coach with Golden State. Following the resignation of Warriors Head Coach Al Attles in 1983, Bach was appointed interim head coach for four games before being named head coach for the 1983-84 season. He spent three seasons at the helm. Prior to that, he coached 10 years at Penn State and 18 years at New York's Fordham University.     "It's a joy to be back," declares the former Navy man, who still gets up early each morning, showers and shaves and then commutes on the train from downtown Chicago to the Berto Center. "Everyone likes to come home."     Just as important to Bach, however, is that he's getting the opportunity to coach.    "People are whatever age they believe they are, as far as energy, vitality and ability to meet a challenge," he says. "I don't mind saying I'm 79, but I want a chance to compete." Last summer, Paxson gave him that chance.      Bach knew there was an opening for an assistant coach and let the new Bulls GM know that he hadn't retired. He'd left the Wizards along with Doug Collins and Michael Jordan, but he wanted to stay in the game. Paxson told Bach there was no need to interview. He knew what he was capable of, and he'd put him on the short list of candidates.    "Johnny let us know early on that he wanted to be here, and that he was very eager to coach and contribute and bring back a defensive mindset," says Pax. "When all was said and done, I felt very comfortable with him coming back because he is a great basketball mind."     In fact, Paxson and Bach are a pair of traditionalists who share a passion for basketball and the way it should be played. "Johnny has always felt that you have to be tough-minded and competitive to be successful in this business," says Paxson, who as a player would watch clips from movies such as "Full Metal Jacket" that Bach put together with game film. "I believe that too, and it's a wonderful attitude to bring to any team."     Bach also brings a sense of time and place to coaches and players. "He's one of the few guys in the league who understands the history of this league and how privileged these guys are to be here," says Paxson, who adds that Bach gives the coaching staff a sense of the big picture. "He's not a hardcore guy who jumps on you, but he's very direct. Two people can say the same thing, but one person has the ability to make you hear it; he's got that ability."     Bach is the son of an Irish mother and Dutch immigrant father, who grew up in what was then the immigrant ghetto of East New York. He played baseball and basketball and at one point, made it to Double AA ball as a catcher. Bach attended Fordham University, then the University of Rochester and finally Brown University, where he earned a degree in naval science. When World War II broke out, all three Bach men — Johnny, his twin brother Neil and their dad — were called to serve. Bach's dad was a lieutenant colonel in the Navy; Johnny was a naval deck officer, and Neil was a Navy pilot. Neil was lost at sea in 1944, just shy of age 20.      At that same age, Johnny was a naval officer on board a heavy cruiser, doing gunnery work, navigation and other tasks. "There were a lot of duties thrown on you when you were very young," he recalls, "and you wonder why they're entrusting them to you, but that's what the military does. [That generation] didn't have a schoolboy outlook. You were competing for positions at officer, assigned to warships or whatever duty. The frivolousness of youth was gone."     He was called up in June 1943 and stayed in the Navy until 1947. He went back to Fordham, unsure what to do with his degree in naval science, and talked to the dean. The two worked out a deal; Bach took some philosophy and theology courses, Fordham's cornerstones, along with economics to prepare for a law career.
     He earned the degree after two semesters and in 1948 was drafted by the Boston Celtics; he was cut by the team his second year. Soon, Fordham gave him a call, asking if he would be their new basketball coach.     "I wasn't looking to coach," explains Bach; "it's just what happened to me."     The young veteran talked to mentor and father-figure Joe Lapchick, the legendary basketball coach who was then at St. John's University. Bach told Lapchick that he didn't feel equipped to take the job. Lapchick's reply: "None of us have ever been qualified to take over the role of coach. Just do it — you'll either succeed or you won't."     That was 1950 and Bach was 25 years old. He ended up spending the next 18 years at Fordham, and his team became the most improved in the nation.    "I think everyone who goes into coaching must have some apprehension," says Bach. "It's awesome because it's far more than basketball. It's philosophy and discipline. It has so many demands — to represent the university and the game. I don't think anyone should enter it easily."     Another coaching opportunity opened up, and Bach went to Penn State, where he spent the next 10 years. During that tenure he helped coach the 1972 U.S. Olympic basketball team under celebrated Head Coach Henry Iba, which turned into a bitter experience for every American player and coach involved. It's a story Bach discusses, though not often.     After a fantastic 8-0 run in Munich, the U.S. team faced the USSR for the gold medal. Doug Collins shot two free throws with three seconds left, putting the U.S. in front 50-49. Immediately following Collins' free throws, the Soviets inbounded the ball and failed to score, but one official had whistled play to stop with one second remaining after hearing an earlier horn and seeing a disturbance near the scorer's table. The Soviets argued that they had requested a timeout before Collins' foul shots. The referees ordered the clock reset to three seconds and the game's final seconds replayed. However, the clock was in the process of being reset when the referees put the ball in play. A length of the court pass missed its mark, the horn sounded and the U.S. again began celebrating.     Officials ordered the clock again reset to 0:03 and the game replayed from that point. This time, the Soviet's Aleksander Belov and the USA's Kevin Joyce and Jim Forbes went up for the pass, Belov caught the long pass from Ivan Edeshko at the foul line, drove to the basket for the layup and scored. A U.S. protest was denied, and the Soviets were awarded the gold medals. The U.S. team voted unanimously to refuse their silver medals.    "Doug Collins made the two free throws, and Coach Iba said, 'we're not going to give the damn Russians 50 points.' That was the game plan. We were ahead 50-49 and I expected a glorious finish," recounts Bach. "What happened was a nightmare — replay, replay, replay."    "It's something I hardly ever talk about," says Bach. "It involved an unbelievable amount of political chaos. The game was poorly administered, we were robbed of a gold medal; the players were embittered. We lost the first game an American team had ever lost. I was sort of staggered by the abrupt end, the closing of that door."
     He returned to Penn State but decided he needed a break from college, teaching and basketball. Bach took a year off and flew planes for Piper Aircraft. He trained to be a pilot for Allegheny Airlines. He tried to get as far from the game as he could.     "I was wise enough to know it was an escape," says Bach. "It was hard, with 28 years of coaching, at age 53, to know where to go." He heard about a job opening with Golden State and called another mentor, Pete Newell, who was their player personnel director. It was Bach's first coaching job in the pros.      The married father of five went out alone; his kids wanted to finish high school in Pennsylvania. Four years later he became the Warriors’ head coach. In 1986, Jerry Krause called, and Bach accepted a job with the Bulls, working under new head coach Doug Collins and, later, coach Phil Jackson. After eight seasons as a Bulls assistant, he wasn’t rehired, but he was offered a new job with the Charlotte Hornets. It was a major turning point in Bach's life.     Moving to Charlotte, starting a new job, leaving relationships in Chicago, and in the final stages of a long divorce, Bach, at the time, was feeling stressed. "As one doctor said, every one of those reasons was reason to have a heart attack." And he did.     Bach was preparing for the new season in Charlotte when he drove himself to the emergency room, telling doctors he didn't feel well. They saw what was happening and immediately injected a clot-dissolving drug. The next thing Bach recalls is a near-death experience of tunnels, lights, visions of his grave and pleading for his life.      His heart had stopped, but doctors revived him, and after two days he was sent to Johns Hopkins in Baltimore for treatment, where stents were inserted in his arteries. He's had no recurrence, faithfully gets checked out each year at Johns Hopkins and uses a treadmill daily to stay in shape.     The experience renewed a number of things in Bach, who for years had been completely devoted to basketball. "It made me more available to look at some other things, like why am I always looking ahead? Why not look around and enjoy today?"
     A few years earlier, Bach had started to realize he needed something other than basketball and took up painting. He still paints, mostly watercolors of the sea, ships and military heroes, including Congressional Medal of Honor winners. He started reading more, and he met Mary Sweeney, a trial lawyer, whom he married seven years ago.    "I think I enjoy today more because of the experience, because of counseling and because of Mary, whom I was dating at the time (of the heart attack). She's a terribly strong person," says Bach. "I never knew you could enjoy life this much." After years of travel and spending too much time away from his kids, he's now close to them.      He also feels that he's a better coach than before.    "Here I am in my 51st year doing what I vowed I wouldn't do, spending 50 years at something. But I like it even more because I can see it more objectively. I can walk away once in a while from a practice instead of watching more tape and writing more notes. I'm free of that obsession, which made me demand too much and hope for too much. I see things more realistically now."     Just as Bach has enriched hundreds of players with his knowledge over the past 51 years, he's gained wisdom in the past decade that's enriched his own life. He's still punctual and orderly, a passionate perfectionist. But he's more at peace with his passions — basketball and life.

Father knows best?So Sonny Parker will tell you not to be deceived by his son, Jabari's, phlegmatic appearance. He may not say he's the greatest. But the kid named for Muhammad Ali, Jabari Ali Parker, likely believes it."He keeps a lot of things to himself," Sonny Parker said after his son was introduced as the newest Bulls player at a Wednesday United Center media conference. "I didn't even know until Friday. I pretty much found out when you (media) guys found out. He very seldom celebrates because he feels like he's been there before. He keeps a lot of things inside. Sometimes I do things on purpose just to get (some kind of) reaction. I don't know how he does it, but (when) it comes out you've got to pay attention to it."Sonny Parker understands.He's not your ordinary family member of a professional athlete; he isn't living vicariously through his children.Sonny was all-everything at Farragut High School and resides in numerous halls of fame. He became an all-American and all-decade player at Texas A&M and first round NBA draft choice for the Golden State Warriors. He played six years in the NBA, twice averaging at least 14 points and went on to do distinguished community work in Chicago at the James Jordan Boys and Girls Club, where Jabari in the shadows of the United Center learned to play basketball, and with his own youth foundation.Sonny doesn't need the athletic brilliance or success of a child to define him, his on and off the court accomplishments among the most revered in Chicago. So he speaks frankly and plainly."I've been through a lot of what he's been through," Sonny says. "I've told him how you've got to be professional, to make sure your body language is right, be the biggest cheerleader out there even when you are not playing and whatever minutes they give you, go out there and be productive because it's about the team. He knows that."He's got DNA, that's all I can tell you, he's got the DNA," Sonny said with an assured smile. "You guys are going to see it. He's got a different kind of swagger, a different kind of toughness. But it's not bragging if you can back it up. Because you know his middle name is Ali. I named him after Muhammad Ali. He's a queen on the chessboard; he can play every position. He led the ACC in rebounding. He played center, didn't he? He can play all positions. He can handle the ball, he can play anywhere on the court. The three-point shot came really good this year. He's explosive. They said he wasn't athletic, what? He had 80, 90 dunks one year. He's athletic and skilled. I know they have him pigeonholed like he's a four, but he's a wing player. He guards point guards. You look at some of the games he played, he sometimes switches off on the point guards. I just want him to be a basketball player."The Bulls will be thrilled if he's even just some of that. But dad knows, and he knows this kid is determined."The first time he walked through the door when he got hurt, he said, 'Dad, don't feel sorry for me,'" Sonny recalled. "His new number two? This is a new chapter for him. I know he wants to start a new chapter and move on. This time he can work on his game and not have to do therapy all summer. You can see he's much stronger, has athleticism and bounce."I always told him the NBA stands for, 'No Boys Allowed,'" Sonny said. "He gets it. He didn't fear anything (coming back from the second ACL surgery). He was going to the basket, doing things athletically. He continues to play the same way he's been playing. You go out tentatively and not sure, you get hurt. The mental part is good. He overcame the physical part. It was just a matter of time."He came back last season, had 35 one game (in April), the last game 25," Sonny noted. "You could see him coming around. Now he'll have a jump start on the coming season. He wants to contribute and help as much as he can. He has a good team attitude. I said, 'Jabari, how many points did you score?' He said, "Dad, we won the game.'"The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
Antonio Blakeney is like that gold nugget embedded in a boulder. So close to being a great discovery, but you're still hacking away attempting to extract the treasure. He could be another Lou Williams, Jamal Crawford or Ricky Pierce, the rare instant offense player who energizes a team and enhances its starters."He's a guy when you are struggling to put the ball in the basket, he can go by his man and he can create," agrees Bulls coach Fred Hoiberg. "We didn't have a lot of those guys last year who can get by their man like that."But the brilliance and impact that could be Blakeney continues to be only frustratingly close. He's once again the Bulls leading scorer in Summer League who still seems too good for the G-league and not quite ready to display his influence on a regular basis in the NBA. It's perhaps as achingly exasperating for Blakeney as it is for the Bulls. He's a 6-4, 200 pounder who often looks like he could be one of the most of gifted scorers in the NBA with an uncanny ability to get to the basket, a solid shooting stroke and probably the team's best finisher on the fast break.Blakeney showed that opening up Summer League for the Bulls with 14 first quarter points and 25 for the game as they rode to a victory over the Cavaliers. His game was mostly overshadowed by the coming out party for rookie Wendell Carter Jr., who had 16 points and five blocks.Carter suffered a leg contusion in the Game 2 loss to the Lakers Sunday. Hoiberg said Carter didn't do much in practice Monday, but he is having no physical issues and will start Tuesday against the Atlanta Hawks (5 p.m. NBA-TV). Hoiberg said the same starting five will open the game.That will include Blakeney, who even with an ugly two of 15 shooting in Sunday's loss, still leads the team in scoring. The Bulls would love to unlock that Blakeney scoring potential for their regular season roster and rotation given Blakeney's potential as a classic sixth man instant scorer.But it's the defense, and the failure to find teammates when the double team and help comes and so many little things that seem correctable. If only, if only... ."Defense and making simple plays all the time; sometimes I do and sometimes I won't, so I have to do that all the time, make those simple plays," Blakeney said after Monday practice in a mantra that probably has been a regular chant for him from the coaching staff. "Obviously, I can score in a variety of ways, off the bench or whatever the case may be. Right now as a young player in the league what I am trying to establish is bring that energy off the bench; score and bring energy. Obviously, that's not my future goal in my career, but right now that's something I am trying to evolve to until I am where I want to be as a starter in the league one day."Blakeney has that capability. The Bulls surely could use that from the undrafted 21-year-old from LSU. It all seems so close. But just close.Blakeney was the star of the summer last year and then exciting early in training camp. But after the sort of thing he could do with a 15-point quarter against the Lakers in November, he drifted to the back of the bench as players recovered from injuries and indignities.Blakeney earned the new two-way G-league contract to get his foot into the NBA. So with the roster expanding, the Bulls sent him to Windy City where Blakeney was a cyclone of offense. He was G-league rookie of the year and leading scorer at 32 per game with a half dozen games of at least 40 points.He outgrew the G-league quickly, and then when he began to find a bit of a fit with the Bulls in March with four games scoring in double figures in five games, he suffered a season ending fracture.It is a curious predicament for Blakeney.He could dominate the G-league, but no G-league player gets a chance to do that in the NBA. G-league players have to accept a role to crack an NBA roster; perhaps a rebounder or spot minutes defender. Dominant scorer? No, teams have high lottery draft picks for that. So Blakeney also has been trying to temper his game to match his Bulls potential, at least for now."Last year, I came into the Summer League trying to prove myself, get a roster spot," Blakeney noted. "I am still trying to make it in the league. I feel like I (have been) a good professional, coming in early, leaving late to practice; obviously, I played well in the G-league and had some flashes in the NBA."Obviously, the situation last year was hard," Blakeney acknowledged. "When you are in the G-league, you get to play a certain amount of minutes and take a certain amount of shots. Get to do what you want. But that's not my role in the NBA. It kind of didn't prepare me for what my role was going to be in the NBA. So now what I am trying to do is figure out my role and keep getting better at that. Every day in practice, being efficient, trying not to be a volume guy, but an efficient guy, being around the guys we have and learning from them."It's a delicate balancing act because Blakeney can be as accomplished a scorer as any of them. And then can you—or even should you— try to turn a volume scorer like Blakeney into a playmaker and ball mover? The Bulls continue to work with Blakeney to identify help defense and find open teammates. Some players just don't see that.Many of the greatest scoring sixth men in league history weren't always adept at passing the ball. That's why they became such good scorers. But Blakeney also hasn't shown enough consistency that the team would or should be comfortable in putting him in a role for a high number of shot attempts. It's the maddening paradox."We fell in love with him last year in a three-on-three draft workout," Hoiberg said. "He won every game and a lot was the one-on-one stuff; always found a way to string five or six (baskets) together. He was a very raw player on both ends of the floor when he came in last year. We've seen growth in all areas since then. We know he can score; it's about adding elements as far as playmaker and keeping that defensive intensity no matter how things are going on the offensive end. The trend of the league is switching, and he is a guy who can back up and get a full head of steam and beat his man and get to the basket and make a play. The important thing with his growth is when he gets by his man and draws that second defender, he has to make that kick, on time, on target pass. He's gotten better at it; continue to grow in that area."But at least Blakeney isn't lacking for confidence. Asked about being able to help the Bulls like a Lou Williams or Jamal Crawford type, Blakeney said, "I think I can easily do that right now. I can finish, drive, shoot the midrange, shoot the three, off the dribble, catch and shoot, so I think my offensive game is pretty polished. But now I am just focusing on Summer League. This is all about getting better and having fun, trying to win."And maybe finding a guy who can really help get some of those wins when it matters most.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

It turns out Bobby Portis and Nikola Mirotic did play cards one time together.No, it wasn't War. It was just uncomfortable."We tried to be professional each and every day," Portis said—and probably for the last time with the trade of Mirotic to the New Orleans Pelicans—about his interaction with Mirotic after their preseason fight. "Come in and work, try and make things work on the court. Off the court we never talked or anything. We just kind of stayed away from each other. Played cards one time; it was kind of awkward. After that didn't play anymore. Tried to be professional to the utmost.'Portis and Mirotic were professional, and actually played well together. But as the Bulls Saturday continue their road trip against the Los Angeles Clippers, it's Portis who remains standing. At least in a Bulls jersey."When things happen like that it kind of ruins not the team, but the idea that two guys are able to play with each other," Portis said after Bulls practice Friday at USC. "I think it was cool to play with him on the court. I thought we had great chemistry, trying to read each other, playing the high-low game."Did he feel guilty about the punch that sent Mirotic to the hospital and cost him 23 games, Portis himself suspended eight games."Guilty?" Portis repeated. "No. I just come in and try and play basketball. Every team gets into a situation, but ours just blew up because of the whole hospital thing. Other than that I'm still sorry for what I did. Honestly man, I'm just over the situation, talking about Niko. I just want to talk about the Chicago Bulls, try and be the best basketball player. I feel like I've said it every time I talk to you guys, but I truly am sorry for what happened. I don't really want to talk about that anymore. As for me, I'm just worried about my future.'hich is as the prime big man off the bench. Of course unless he starts Saturday as he did in the second half against Portland after Paul Zipser started. Bulls coach Fred Hoiberg said he remains uncertain about who will start. And it's not one of those feints for the opponent because of the state of the Bulls mixed up roster with the Mirotic trade, injuries and personal excuses.Hoiberg said Kris Dunn is improving, but likely would miss at least the last two games on the trip that concludes in Sacramento Monday. Lauri Markkanen, whose personal issue was the birth if his first child, will not play Saturday. He could join the team in Sacramento. The new players from the trade, Omer Asik and Jameer Nelson, joined the team after Saturday practice for physicals. They probably will be ready, but Hoiberg is on the same page with management to play more young players for evaluation and analysis. Tony Allen is not joining the team for now."We've got guys now who are going to get an opportunity who really haven't had much this year," said Hoiberg, echoing Thursday comments by Bulls executive John Paxson. "Paul and Cris (Felicio) are going to get a great opportunity and hopefully play well for us. (Ryan) Arcidiacono and (Antonio) Blakeney will have some opportunity. I've talked about this all along: At some point your name is going to be called. You have to take advantage of those minutes. That time is now. The big thing is finishing the season on a positive note."Shooting my shot, trying to live for the moment. I feel like I've been getting better each and every day. Coach Pete (Myers) always says that with minutes comes experience, and that's been the biggest thing for meIt's also a big chance for the 6-11 Portis, who is having his best season. He is averaging 12.1 points and 6.2 rebounds. He is shooting 33 percent on threes and 48 percent overall, all off the bench. It's his first sustained play as a Bull in his third season after falling behind Mirotic, Taj Gibson and even Joffrey Lauvergne for a time. Now with Mirotic traded and, at least for now, Markkanen away from the team, it's an opportunity for Portis also to show whether he should be part of the team's plans."I'm just going to come in and try doing something similar that I've been doing," said Portis. "Move the ball, shoot the ball with confidence. Try and play with energy, effort, try to bring some juice off the bench."There was more to the Mirotic trade than the altercation with Portis, who declined to detail what actually occurred in that practice. There was a failed summer negotiation with Mirotic and doubts about whether Mirotic should be an eight-figure earner before the young players the Bulls acquired in the Jimmy Butler trade. But the punch obviously played a part in the scenario, and Portis always has expressed contrition.He hopes he's answered the last question about that in what could be a bizarre finish to the season with the new players and still another changing rotation. Still, Hoiberg and the players will push for wins, and Portis could play a significant part."Coming in here every day, getting a ton of confidence each and every game," said Portis. "Shooting my shot, trying to live for the moment. I feel like I've been getting better each and every day. Coach Pete (Myers) always says that with minutes comes experience, and that's been the biggest thing for me."Nah, not really," Portis said about whether he is aware of talk the Bulls intend to lose games for a draft pick. "That just means guys like me, Paul Zipser, Cristiano Felicio get more opportunity on the court to show that we can play. We're not looking at it like [tanking]. As a basketball player you're not just saying, ‘Oh we're going to tank to get picks or anything.' We're just trying to do our job each and every day. Follow coach's game plan and try and be the best basketball players we can each and every day, try and get wins.'Which, obviously, will be more difficult without the team's leading scorer, Mirotic,"Lemme first of all say this about Niko," Hoiberg began Friday in opening comments to reporters. "I really appreciate everything that he has brought to our team these last few years. It was a very difficult situation with everything that went down in the preseason. But he handled it great. He was very professional about it. And obviously when he came back, we played very well. We had as good a record as anybody in the league for that stretch in December. You look at the percentages he shot and the impact he had at both ends. It's not going to be one guy who steps in and shoots the way he did and plugs gaps defensively like Niko did. Bobby is going to have a much bigger role now."It would be helpful if he can be an ace.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.So maybe it’s not for the NBA championship of October after all. That’s what the NBA and ESPN obviously had in mind when the Bulls and Cavs were scheduled for Oct. 31, Chicago’s home opener.But it’s not exactly working out as anticipated because of that common opponents thing: The Bulls led the Knicks in New York Wednesday by 35 points and eventually won 104-80. The Knicks then in the second of a back to back in Cleveland’s opener Thursday amidst a raucous celebration for the return home of LeBron James defeated the Cavs 95-90 as James had almost as many turnovers (eight) as the Cavs bench scored points (12).So maybe it isn’t quite the statement game/measuring stick/conference finals preview. Or maybe it is as James’ Heat started 2010-11 with a record of 9-8 amidst calls for coach Erik Spoelstra to be fired and James’ sudden unhappiness with the Miami organization. Two championships and four Finals appearances later, James has returned to Cleveland and the Central Division. And forever to deny the Bulls their chance at an NBA championship?Of course, in analyzing the Cavs for media after practice Thursday, Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau likened them somewhere between the 1960’s Celtics and the 1927 baseball Yankees. He even talked up Matthew Dellavedova, whoever that is.  Then you had to love this as the Knicks Thursday using 12 players and only Carmelo Anthony more than 30 minutes held off Cleveland down the stretch as James and Kyrie Irving played 43 minutes and Kevin Love and Dion Waiters just under 40. Reserves rarely played for rookie coach David Blatt, who made Thibodeau look like he inspired Gregg Popovich to go easy on his players’ minutes.So can the Cavs start 0-2? LeBron’s new Cavs with his promise to Cleveland that this time, really, there’s going to be something to celebrate? It’s Bulls/Cavs for one of just the four times they’ll meet this season. And not again until Martin Luther King Day in late January. Yes, this is the big one! C’mon, no really. C’mon, get nervous.Point Guard: Derrick Rose vs. Kyrie Irving. Irving led the Cavs Thursday with 22 points and seven assists, though he added four of the 19 turnovers. Against the smothering Knicks’ defense? Rose had a huge game in preseason against Irving, even turning him like a merry-go-round on one move. Not lost on anyone was that Rose had to back up Irving for USA Basketball and Irving was named MVP for the gold medal USA team. Rose was skewered for shooting one of 19 on threes. Rose had a restful first game Wednesday, not playing in the fourth quarter in the Bulls’ domination. Rose’s speed has usually been too much for Irving.Edge: BullsShooting Guard: Kirk Hinrich vs. Dion Waiters. Hinrich figures to get the start for the injured Jimmy Butler. And though the Bulls and Butler held out a slight hope of playing, it would seem no sense to rush with a benign schedule coming up with Minnesota, Orlando, Milwaukee, Philadelphia and Boston. Hinrich had a good opener with a dozen points and frustrating Iman Shumpert. Waiters is now starting and a shooter in the Ben Gordon mold, though not quite as explosive as Gordon once was. James was busy in Game 1 trying to get others going. It didn’t work out that well. Hinrich’s defense also will prove a bother to Waiters, another of the non-defending Cavs’ starters.Edge: BullsSmall Forward: Mike Dunleavy vs. LeBron James. There was talk after Dunleavy shut down Anthony Wednesday that James, like so many NBA players, would come down with a case of Dunleavy-itis to avoid the tentacled Bulls defender. Who knows? Maybe there was. Dunleavy did a nice job staying with Anthony and the Bulls big guys covered up the sun behind Dunleavy so Anthony didn’t get many good looks at the basket. Dunleavy gets James now. Of course, Dunleavy would say James now has to guard him. James said all preseason it’s a process for a Cavs team with new pieces and coach and he appears correct. Plus they are small and don’t protect the rim very well, which may be a larger issue.Edge: CavsPower Forward: Joakim Noah vs. Kevin Love. The issue here is the best center in the NBA last season is now a power forward, and not exactly in a great situation having to defend a guy who most likes to be 28 feet from the basket on offense. Love was mentioned as a potential Bull in trade, though just vaguely and nothing much ever came of it before he was traded from Minnesota to Noah’s favorite vacation destination. Love’s a bit of the statistics driven star as his numbers affect viewers of the game more than his impact affects the game. He had 19 points and 14 rebounds in the opener and you often wondered where he was. Heck of an outlet passer, though. Noah has come into the season adjusting as well, both to more perimeter play and less involvement with the offense. But he’s the good teammate.  “It’s really exciting,” he told reporters Thursday after practice. “A lot of excitement right now. I just like our mindset. We’re focused. We’re in a good place. We’re playing against a very good team, so we’re excited. I’ve said excited like five times already. It’s just a great time of year. It's as good as it gets. Just being able to play in that (United Center) building is very special, especially in a season opener like that at home, playing in a big game in front of the fans here in Chicago. It's always special.” Noah had three points and six rebounds in 20 minutes Wednesday.Edge: CavsCenter: Pau Gasol vs. Anderson Varejao.  If the Cavs have a personnel weakness it’s here, where they are small and don’t protect the basket that well. Varejao is about to get a $30 million extension, thus showing it’s good to have LeBron as a friend. He runs around a lot, Noah-esque, though he doesn’t have quite the impact. He really doesn’t have a true backup, though they have Brendan Haywood around somewhere. Gasol had a big start with 21 points and 11 rebounds and if not a fearsome defender is frustrating to try to get past at the rim. He’s over seven foot with long arms and a smooth athlete.Edge: BullsBench: Who were those guys in New York? The Bulls reserves were the stars of Seventh Avenue Wednesday when Taj Gibson, Aaron Brooks and Doug McDermott combined outscored the entire Knicks starting lineup. Suddenly after an uneven preseason, the Bulls’ bench is mobbed with nickname requests. The Cavs got almost nothing from their bench against the Knicks, though they didn’t get to play much. Shawn Marion and Mike Miller combined for 13 minutes and were scoreless as they made their debut as assisted living facility spokesmen.Edge: BullsCoaching: Tom Thibodeau vs. David Blatt. The Cavs coach comes from overseas with a reputation as an offensive innovator and the Cavs had 64 points through three quarters. They pushed the pace in preseason, though not so much Thursday. They figure to try Friday, though it’s the rebounding thing as it’s tough to run without them and the equally small Knicks got more. Not to diminish Blatt, but Thibodeau probably knows what he had for breakfast and how that affects his play calls.Edge: BullsPick: Yes, I did a playoff matchup for the second game of the regular season. I need to settle down as well.

The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.One of my favorite Western movies is an 80’s campy film, Silverado, with a lot of stars who were not stars yet. There’s a wonderfully understated scene in which the bad guy sheriff played by Brian Dennehy shows up at the site of a jailbreak where the good guys got away and took out a few more of his corrupt helpers.Dennehy surveys the scene of a few more of his men gone and observes, “I’m runnin’ out of deputies.”And so, too, are the Bulls who Sunday in losing to the Los Angeles Clippers 96-86 lost Jimmy Butler early in the second quarter with a hyperextended elbow. He’ll have an MRI Monday to determine if there is further damage, said Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau. Butler joined Derrick Rose, out four to six weeks after his latest knee surgery, and Taj Gibson listed day to day but probably week to week with another sprained ankle. Though still ill, Pau Gasol returned and grabbed 15 rebounds, but he shot two of 13 for four points.“I want to give Pau a lot of credit,” said Thibodeau. “Pau is sick, very sick. He knows we’re shorthanded; he got out there and gave us everything he had.”Similarly, Thibodeau said with Kirk Hinrich, first off the bench for the lately slumping Aaron Brooks, who was starting for Rose. Brooks after shooting two of 15 Friday in the win over Minnesota did improve to five of 17 Sunday for 14 points, however little that may be.Hinrich was zero for seven in 25 minutes and scoreless backing up Brooks, thus a five for 24 at point guard.“Kirk is battling through injury,” said Thibodeau. “We’re shorthanded and he is giving us what he has.”Yes, despite all this and DeAndre Jordan with a massive 26 rebounds, 17 in the first half, and Chris Paul with 28 points and 12 assists, the Bulls still trailed just 82-78 with 5:25 left in the game when Thibodeau lifted Joakim Noah. Despite his own season long health issues, Noah had 13 points, 11 rebounds and six assists with nine of 14 at the free throw line. Plus, Noah was working seamlessly with Nikola Mirotic, who had a career high 29 points and 16 of the Bulls’ 17 fourth quarter points.But Thibodeau said Noah at just under 35 minutes probably was at his allotted playing time.“We’re trying not to run (Noah’s) minutes straight through,” said Thibodeau. “So we want to give him (what) we’ve been doing all year, to stay where we would like his minutes to be. I like the way Jo’s been playing; that 32-34 minutes is probably the right amount for him.”It’s difficult to suggest otherwise with Noah’s difficulties following off season knee surgery.But the offense then without Rose or Noah or Butler, the latter closing Friday’s win at point guard, stopped. The Clippers with the Bulls going to the intentional fouling of Jordan tactic (the Clippers outscored them 7-2 in that stretch) outscored the Bulls 10-4 with Noah out for a 92-82 lead with under two minutes remaining. And this injury-plagued, poor shooting (season low 31 percent) Bulls team wasn’t about to make any sort of surge at that point.“You’ve just got to find a way to win,” said Thibodeau. “That game was winnable down the stretch and we just didn’t get it done; we didn’t get it done. When your primary scorers are out it’s going to be a struggle. But we’ve got to be able to find a way to win and whatever way that is that’s what we have to do. Whether it’s with our defense and rebounding, whatever it is. That game was hanging in the balance with six minutes to go; we’ve got to find a way to pull that out. Right now there are a lot of moving parts and different combinations, but we’ll figure it out.”The Bulls fell to 37-23 (18-13 at home), though remained in third in the fading Eastern Conference as the Cavs lost again as well. The Raptors just ahead of the Bulls and the Wizards (Tuesday’s opponent) and the Bucks just behind are both in their biggest slumps of the season. So the Bulls are not about to miss the playoffs or probably fall too far. So what to do at this point?Obviously, try to get as many players healthy as possible for the playoffs. Which will likely bring out the venerable dilemma of the coach’s desire to win as many games possible for the best playoff positioning and the organization’s long term approach to player well being while trying to have the best group prepared for the most vital part of the season in spring.“It’s an unforgiving league; you don’t want to feel sorry for yourself,” said Thibodeau. “There are times during the course of the season things are going your way; there are times it is not going your way. The schedule is in your favor, it’s not in your favor. Hopefully, we have a will and determination that can get us past the times when things are tough. We have to be mentally tough right now. We have to fight through some adversity. I think one of the good characteristics of our team is they’ve been through a lot, they know how to fight through things and we’re going to have to continue to fight on. That’s the only thing we can do. Put as much as we can into each and every day and go from there. We have a really good group of guys I know will fight.”Hard hats and lunch pails?It’s probably more than that.Maybe some more Doug McDermott. Or at least some McDermott for a team that has trouble scoring. The kid was the fifth leading scorer in NCAA history passing Larry Bird and a career 46 percent three point shooter. He even shot threes better than fellow former Creighton alum Kyle Korver. Korver told CSN Chicago recently that Jimmy Butler at All-Star break told him that McDermott was “killing it at practice,” and the players all know McDermott can play. Similarly with so many point guard injuries, perhaps seeing more of E’Twaun Moore, who started in Orlando and is in his fourth NBA season.With Gibson out, Thibodeau went more with Mirotic, who ended up being the Bulls primary offensive option and even scored every Bulls fourth quarter point until Noah made a free throw with 1:14 left and the Bulls trailing 93-82. Mirotic was 11 of 23 and two of seven on three and five of eight with free throws in about 30 minutes for his career high 29.“It was a tough game for us because we lost,” he said as he’s always talking team first. “I take a lot of shots today; my teammates, they find me in this situation without Derrick, without Taj, without Jimmy. Somebody needs to shoot the ball, so my teammates are trying to find me and I make some tough shots. But I really feel bad because my team lost.“When you don’t have the most important players on the court we play different, and a lot of those plays they try to find me,” Mirotic noted in his aggressive play seeking out mismatches. “I say we really fight in all the game. What we have to do is find a way to win these games without our best players.“We should play simple basketball,” added Mirotic. “Trying to play good defense, trying to share the ball and the most important, trying to play hard 48 minutes. Because in this league you cannot play 30 minutes good, 35. Because in 10 minutes they can score, get you in a big difference and it will be really difficult to recover.”The Bulls competed fiercely and favorably against a Clippers team without Blake Griffin, but still with All-Star Paul and Jordan, whom the Clippers continue to try to make the odd case he should be a league Most Valuable Player. Jordan is leading the league in rebounding and was even one short of his season high with 26 rebounds Sunday. Still, the Bulls were only outrebounded 55-51. And the Clippers are just barely in the top half of the league in defense."What he's doing defensively, if he was doing that offensively he would be recognized as the MVP or one of them," said Clippers coach Doc Rivers said. "But because it's defensively no one notices."Though as Thibodeau noted even with all the injuries and illness and sideways shooting, there still were 11 ties and 14 lead changes. The Clippers led 26-18 after the Bulls were down 11 in the noon national ABC-TV start. Going with Mirotic and Tony Snell, the Bulls edged ahead 34-33 midway through the second. Though that was against a weak Clippers bench. The Clippers led 43-41 at halftime and it was tied at 69 after three. The Bulls were hustling on defense and doing a good job closing on three point shooters. The Clippers were seven of 27 on threes as the Bulls weren’t missing effort.Snell drove aggressively and began hitting his three in the third quarter while Brooks finally broke out with 10 points of his own in the third. With Mirotic on his own 6-0 run to start the fourth quarter with a high/low pass from Noah and pump fake and driving three-point play, the Bulls took a 76-73 lead with 8:48 remaining.Until Rose does return, the games all are going to be like this, taffy pull affairs coming down to the last few minutes. The Bulls with much more three-point shooting for the first time perhaps ever could open the game up with some speed. They had just two occasions of pushing the ball in transition and not waiting for play calls, which basically resulted in them being outscored 16-4 in fast breaks.With players out, it’s obviously difficult to score. So you have to try to get easy baskets. But the Bulls basically stay in this tight offensive set, cautious with the ball and often running the clock down with late shots. It’s the way the Bulls have mostly played the last two seasons without Rose. But they didn’t have as much potential shooting talent as they do now. And Brooks has speed to push the ball. True, you can shoot yourself out of a game playing faster like that with lots of three-point shooting without one scorer to rely upon or get to the free throw line. So Thibodeau works conservatively, trying to stay close like the Bulls did Sunday, and then play enough defense that a few baskets in the last six minutes may be enough.This time it wasn’t.Brooks and Hinrich committed turnovers, Brooks couldn’t get up an off balance shot and Mirotic missed a pair of jumpers. Former Bull Jamal Crawford after a scoreless first half on zero for seven—you cannot contain him forever—hit a three and a jumper and Paul added another. Thibodeau then fell victim to not trusting his defense and began fouling the poor free throw shooting Jordan. Jordan made three of six while Paul got fouled in the middle of all that and the Bulls could not score enough to recover.Rivers has been asked constantly about the intentional fouling tactic. He did say his inclination as a traditionalist is not to make changes, but it does look bad for the game and fans don’t like seeing it. Rivers said the league as a result probably has to make some change.The Bulls likely do as well.“I think the most important thing with our team is whenever something happens here we are together and we really try to find a way to get out of this situation,” said Mirotic. “We are going to be fine; I think so.”One of the good cowboys, Kevin Costner as Jake, says in the final scene we'll be back. The Bulls can only hope Rose, Gibson, Butler and the rest will be.
The Chicago Bulls announced today that the team has acquired Omer Asik, Jameer Nelson, Tony Allen and a protected first-round pick from New Orleans in exchange for Nikola Mirotić and a 2018 second-round pick. In addition, Chicago will have the right to swap its 2021 second-round pick with New Orleans’ own 2021 second-round pick.“We would like to thank Niko for all of his contributions during his time with the Chicago Bulls organization. We wish him the best with this new opportunity in New Orleans. As I have previously stated, this move has our best interests at heart as we continue to remake our team and position the Bulls for a successful future.” John Paxson, Executive Vice President of Basketball Operations.Asik (7-0, 255), selected 36th overall in the 2008 NBA Draft, has played in 14 games this season while averaging 1.3 points and 2.6 rebounds in 8.6 minutes per game. Asik led the NBA in total rebounds (956) and ranked third in rebounds per game (11.7) in 2012-13, and holds career averages of 5.3 points and 7.2 rebounds on .528 shooting in 467 contests. He returns to the Bulls after spending his first two NBA seasons in Chicago from 2010-12.Nelson (6-0, 190), picked 20th overall in the 2004 NBA Draft, has averaged 5.1 points, 2.2 rebounds and 3.6 assists and appeared in 43 contests this season. Nelson, a former 2009 NBA All-Star, has shot .410 from the field, .364 from beyond the arc and .765 from the free-throw line on the year. He holds career clips of 11.4 points, 3.0 rebounds and 5.1 assists per game in 871 appearances.Allen (6-4, 213) was selected 25th overall in the 2004 NBA Draft, and has averaged 4.7 points and 2.1 rebounds in 22 appearances while shooting .484 from the field this season. A six-time All-NBA Defensive selection, Allen has recorded career averages of 8.1 points, 3.5 rebounds, 1.3 assists and 1.41 steals through 820 games.Mirotić (6-10, 260) was acquired via a trade with Minnesota, in exchange for the draft rights to Norris Cole (28th pick), the draft rights to Malcolm Lee (43rd pick) and cash considerations in the 2011 NBA Draft. He is averaging 16.8 points, 6.4 rebounds and 1.6 assists in 24.9 minutes per game this season and is shooting .474 from the field, .429 from three and .823 from the free-throw line.In 243 career games with Chicago, Mirotić held averages of 11.4 points, 5.4 rebounds and 1.3 assists in 23.0 minutes per game and shot .418 from the field, .361 from long distance and .801 from the line. He appeared in 17 playoff games for the Bulls and averaged 6.8 points, 3.5 rebounds and 1.1 assists in 19.2 minutes per game, and shot .319 from the field, .262 from three-point range and .800 from the free-throw line.

For the seventh time in the last 12 years, the Chicago Bulls pulled off a trade on the night of the NBA Draft. This time around, it is Doug McDermott, college basketball’s consensus national player of the year this past season, who will make his way to the Bulls. Chicago receives McDermott, along with Anthony Randolph, a 6-11, 225-pound forward with six years of NBA experience, in exchange for its two first round selections—Jusuf Nurkic and Gary Harris, taken 16th and 19th, respectively—and the lesser of the Bulls’ two 2015 second round picks (Chicago’s and Portland’s). "It was an unbelievable feeling,” said McDermott of learning he had been acquired by the Bulls. “I knew the interest was there. I saw them at a lot of practices and games. It was great to land in Chicago. Such a great franchise. Great city, great fans. I couldn’t ask for a better spot under coach [Tom] Thibodeau and with all the great players on their team.” McDermott, a 6-8, 218-pound small forward, was initially selected 11th overall by the Denver Nuggets. He played four seasons at Creighton and led the nation in scoring with 26.7 points per game as a senior. Randolph has posted career averages of 7.1 points and 4.3 rebounds in 252 games played. Originally drafted by Golden State with the 14th pick in the 2008 NBA Draft, Randolph has also spent time with Minnesota and New York, in addition to Denver. The Bulls closed out the night by selecting Cameron Bairstow, a power forward from New Mexico, with the 49th pick. As for his role and what he envisions he can bring to the table for the Bulls, McDermott first mentioned what he’s best known for doing—scoring from the perimeter. “I think I can provide some outside shooting right from the get go,” McDermott said. “I’ll be able to come off screens and play off their superstars, [Derrick] Rose, Joakim Noah, Jimmy Butler and the whole crew. I feel I will fit in right away and I’ll play the role to the best of my ability and try to help the team win.” General Manager Gar Forman called McDermott one of the premier shooters in the country, but likes some of the other things he's able to do as well. “Our feeling is that he’s much more than a shooter,” explained Forman. “He’s got a lot of game. We’ve seen him play and we’ve studied him for years. “He’s a guy that is crafty with the ball, can create his own shot and run into the post some,” Forman added. “He’s good around the basket and has a quick release whether it’s from the perimeter or inside. We feel he’s a guy that will fit with the pieces we have.” Thibodeau believes the picks address some of the Bulls’ needs, adding to the depth of the team. He also agreed with Forman’s assessment that McDermott brings more to the table than shooting. “I think if you view him as strictly a shooter, you’re not casting the proper light on him,” Thibodeau stated. “He’s a lot more than that. We think he’s a complete player. We think he’s capable of playing very good defense.” Thibodeau spent some time around McDermott last summer as both were associated with USA Basketball and he came away impressed. “He more than held his own in that setting,” said Thibodeau. “Every night that he went out there, his opponent knew exactly what he was trying to get to and he still found ways to get his shots and help his team win. That’s probably the most important thing, his ability to help his team win.”Audio—General Manager Gar Forman and Head Coach Tom Thibodeau talk about landing Doug McDermott and Cameron Bairstow (06.26.2014):Audio—Doug McDermott on joining the Bulls (06.26.2014):Gar Forman calls McDermott one of the country's premier shooters. "Our feeling is he's much more than a shooter--he's got a lot of game."Tom Thibodeau on McDermott: "If you view him as strictly a shooter, you're not casting the proper light on him. He's a complete player."

The Chicago Bulls announced today that the team has acquired guards Cameron Payne and Anthony Morrow (MORE-roe), and center/forward Joffrey Lauvergne (LA-vern) from the Oklahoma City Thunder in exchange for forwards Taj Gibson, Doug McDermott and a 2018 second-round draft pick.In his second year in the NBA, Payne (6-3, 185) is averaging 5.3 points, 1.6 rebounds and 2.0 assists in 20 games played after missing 35 due to a right foot fracture and two to a D-League assignment with the Oklahoma City Blue. He has scored in double figures twice this season. In 77 career contests (one start), Payne holds averages of 5.1 points, 1.5 rebounds, 1.9 assists and 13.2 minutes played. He has career shooting averages of .385 from the field, .319 from long range and .821 from the foul line.In his ninth NBA season, Morrow (6-5, 210) has appeared in 40 games (seven starts) and is posting averages of 5.8 points, 0.7 rebounds and 0.5 assists in 15.7 minutes per game. He is shooting .387 from the field, .294 from three and .885 from the line for the year. He has eight games with double-digit scoring, and a season high of 21 points vs. Detroit on Nov. 26. In 555 career contests (142 starts), Morrow is averaging 9.5 points, 2.2 rebounds and 0.9 assists in 22.0 minutes. For his career, Morrow is shooting .447 overall, .417 from distance (5th among active players) and .878 from the stripe. In 2008-09, his three-point percentage of .467 ranked first in the league, and he has had five total seasons where his three-point percentage has ranked in the top 10.In his third season in the NBA, Lauvergne (6-11, 220) is averaging 5.7 points, 3.7 rebounds and 1.0 assists across 50 games this year while shooting .455 from the field, .346 from three and .638 from the charity stripe. He’s scored in double figures eight times with a season high of 17 points on Feb. 13 at Washington, which tied Russell Westbrook for the Thunder high in that game. In 133 career appearances (16 starts), Lauvergne is posting averages of 6.3 points, 4.1 rebounds, 0.9 assists in 15.4 minutes played. He is shooting .480 from the field, .293 from distance and .755 from the line for his career. Lauvergne will be the fourth international player on the Bulls roster.Gibson was selected by the Bulls with the 26th overall pick in the 2009 NBA Draft. He is averaging 11.6 points, 7.0 rebounds, 1.1 assists and 0.91 blocks in 27.3 minutes per game this season and is shooting .521 from the field, .167 from three and .714 from the line.In 562 career contests (229 starts) with Chicago, Gibson held averages of 9.4 points, 6.4 rebounds, 1.0 assist and 1.24 blocks and shot .495 from the field and .694 from the stripe. Gibson ranks in the top-10 of several Bulls franchise leader categories, including games played (10th), offensive rebounds (sixth), defensive rebounds (ninth) and blocks (fifth). Gibson also appeared in 56 playoff games (seven starts) for the Bulls and averaged 8.0 points, 4.9 rebounds and 1.16 blocks while shooting .499 overall and .691 at the free-throw line.In his third season, McDermott is averaging 10.2 points, 3.0 rebounds and 1.0 assist and 24.5 minutes in 44 games. McDermott is shooting .445 from the field, .376 from long range and .881 at the line. For his career, McDermott is posting averages of 8.2 points, 2.3 rebounds and 0.7 assists and 20.2 minutes across 161 games (eight starts). He is shooting .445 overall, .399 from three and .849 from the foul line. In three career playoff games for Chicago, McDermott averaged 1.7 points in 3.3 minutes of action.

The Chicago Bulls announced today their 2015-16 preseason schedule.  This preseason, Chicago will play eight games, including three neutral site games in Boulder, Colo., Winnipeg, Canada and Lincoln, Neb.Chicago will tip off its preseason on Tuesday, Oct. 6, when it takes on the Milwaukee Bucks at the United Center at 7:00 p.m. (CT).  The Bulls will then travel to Boulder, Colo., to take on the Denver Nuggets at the Coors Events Center (on the campus of the University of Colorado) on Thursday, Oct. 8 at 8:00 p.m. (CT).This preseason, the Bulls and Minnesota Timberwolves will participate in the fourth annual NBA Canada Series presented by Bell.   Chicago will head to Winnipeg, Canada to take on the Timberwolves on Saturday, Oct. 10 at the MTS Centre at 7:00 p.m. (CT).The Bulls will also host preseason games versus the New Orleans Pelicans (Monday, Oct. 12), the Detroit Pistons (Wednesday, Oct. 14), the Indiana Pacers (Tuesday, Oct. 20) and the Dallas Mavericks (Friday, Oct. 23) at Pinnacle Bank Arena in Lincoln, Neb.  Along with their road contests at Denver and Minnesota, the Bulls’ preseason road docket also includes a game against the Charlotte Hornets (Monday, Oct. 19).Tickets for every Chicago Bulls home game will go on sale on Tuesday, Sept. 22 at 11:00 a.m. at Bulls.com, NBATickets.com, the United Center, Ticketmaster or 1-800-4NBA-TIX.  For season tickets or groups, call 312-455-4000 and ask for a Ticket Executive.

WGN-TV will broadcast 28 regular season games in 2016-17.  WGN-TV’s first broadcast of the season will be Chicago's game at Boston on Nov. 2.  WGN-TV will also televise one preseason game.Complementing Chicago's local television schedule, the Bulls' 2016-17 broadcast schedule also includes 34 nationally televised games.  Chicago's season opener on Oct. 27 will be on TNT, when the Bulls host the Boston Celtics at the United Center.  For the season, Chicago will play on ESPN 12 times, TNT nine times, NBA TV nine times and ABC four times.ALL TIMES CENTRAL
The Chicago Bulls today released their 2018-19 television broadcast schedule.  The Bulls will tip-off the season on TNT with their season opener at Philadelphia on Oct. 18.  Chicago will also take on the 76ers in a nationally-televised game on ESPN at the United Center on Mar. 6.  Every game for the rest of the regular season will be telecast by either NBC Sports Chicago or WGN-TV.NBC Sports Chicago will air 45 regular season games with the network’s first telecast on Oct. 20, as Chicago takes on Detroit in its home opener at the United Center.  “Bulls Pregame Live” coverage will air prior to every game on the network, while “Bulls Postgame Live” will run immediately after each game. NBC Sports Chicago will also air “Bulls Pre/Postgame Live” coverage before and after all Bulls games that are televised on other networks.  Other highlights on NBC Sports Chicago’s telecast schedule include: Nov. 14 at Boston, Nov. 17 against Toronto, Dec. 1 at Houston, Dec. 7 versus Oklahoma City, Dec. 26 against Minnesota, Dec. 30 at Toronto, Jan. 11 at Golden State, Feb. 23 against Boston, against the L.A. Lakers on Mar. 12 and at Toronto on Mar. 26.  Every NBC Sports Chicago Bulls telecast can also be streamed live online at NBCSportsChicago.com and via the NBC Sports app.Chicago’s Very Own WGN-TV will air 35 Bulls games in 2018-19, via over-the-air broadcasts, beginning with the network’s first telecast on Oct. 26, when the Bulls travel to Charlotte to take on the Hornets. Other premiere match-ups on WGN-TV include: Oct. 29 versus Golden State, Nov. 3 versus Houston, Nov. 24 at Minnesota, Dec. 8 against Boston, Dec. 17 at Oklahoma City, Jan. 15 at the L.A. Lakers and on Mar. 30 against Toronto.  WGN-TV will air The Bulls Eye pregame show prior to select games.In addition, NBC Sports Chicago’s coverage will also include all five of Chicago’s preseason games starting with the Bulls’ game versus New Orleans on Sept. 30.
The Chicago Bulls announced today that the team has promoted Brian Hagen to Associate General Manager, Steve Weinman to Assistant General Manager, Jim Paxson to Director of Pro Personnel and Miles Abbett to Manager of Minor League Scouting and Analytics.Hagen is entering his seventh season with the Bulls, as he spent the last six seasons as Assistant General Manager and third as General Manager of the Windy City Bulls. Before joining the Bulls, he spent nine seasons in basketball operations with the New Orleans Hornets, most recently as the team’s Director of Player Personnel. In that role, he was responsible for coordinating the team’s amateur and professional scouting operations and assisted in the evaluation of free agents and prospective trade acquisitions. While with the Hornets, he also spent time as the team’s video coordinator, Director of Basketball Operations, Director of Scouting and Assistant to the General Manager.Weinman, set to begin his seventh year with the Bulls, was previously the team’s Manager of Basketball Operations and Analytics, after spending two years working for the NBA. In his new role, Weinman will continue to manage the team’s salary cap and oversee the organization’s planning for future initiatives, while remaining the team’s lead for all basketball analytics efforts.  Weinman will also shift his focus toward pro scouting and draft personnel.Paxson will begin his 13th season with the Bulls and has spent the last 12 seasons serving as the Director of Basketball Operations. Prior to Chicago, he spent seven seasons with the Cleveland Cavaliers, first as Vice President of Basketball Operations (1998-99), and then as President and General Manager of the club (1999-2005). Paxson also served as Assistant General Manager of the Portland Trail Blazers for three seasons (1995-98), as well as Offensive Skills Coach during the 1993-94 season. He was a two-time NBA All-Star and earned All-NBA Second Team honors in 1984.Abbett, about to embark on his fifth season with the Bulls, formerly served as the team’s Basketball Operations Coordinator.  He will now build upon his analytical contributions for the organization, while also focusing on scouting the G League and international professional leagues.
The Chicago Bulls have traded a protected second-round pick of the 2020 NBA Draft to the Houston Rockets for guard Michael Carter-Williams and cash considerations. In a preceding move, the Bulls waived guard MarShon Brooks. Carter-Williams was also waived following the trade. Chicago’s roster now stands at 16, including two Two-way players.

This is the way the 2016-17 Bulls season ends; not with a bang but with a whimper in a 105-83 loss to the Boston Celtics. Don’t confuse this one with poetry. The Bulls Friday after such a brilliant and encouraging start to the playoffs became hollow men in never leading, falling behind by double digits in the first quarter and by 30 in the premature dying light of their season.“I understand the frustration,” said Bulls coach Fred Hoiberg about the uneasy fans on this bleak April night.  “It was a frustrating game. No doubt about that to go out this way. High note to start this series the way we got off to a 2-0 lead and couldn’t finish it off. I thought we fought and battled, especially Game 5 in Boston; we just didn’t have it tonight.”The Celtics won the series 4-2 with four straight wins after that audacious Bulls start. The Celtics now go on to play the Washington Wizards in the conference semifinals; the Bulls plan for next season.“We lost this series,” said Jimmy Butler, who pushed through for 23 points despite knee problems. “So that sums that up. The season, I guess we did better than y’all picked us to finish; sum it up that way.”Robin Lopez was the only other Bull scoring in double figures with 10 points. Dwyane Wade had two points on one of 10 shooting after hurting his elbow again. Isaiah Canaan added nine points. Boston was 16 of 39 on threes. The Bulls were four of 19. Rajon Rondo didn’t return after sustaining a fractured thumb in Game 2.“I’d have played more minutes, I’d of went one for 20. I don’t care; you have to shoot the basketball. Jimmy did, came out, tried to be aggressive tonight. They kicked our butts overall. I played 19 minutes. I’ve been one for 10 in a half before. I’m not worried about that. We didn’t get an opportunity to make the game close enough, competitive, to do the things we need to do. So, like I said, one seed came out tonight and put it on the eight seed like they should have done and they did a good job of it."Yes, the Bulls went very gentle into a not so good night for them and, hopefully, a productive off season. There was little or no rage for them against the dying light of their season and blunted hopes.Somewhere between the emotion and the response come the big questions for the Bulls. The Bulls now will consider the future in the wake of their descent in an uncompetitive finale after such a potent start to the playoffs, the twinkle of their bright stars fading before our eyes.  Who will be back and how will they become solid again? Is the road ahead to be less traveled by this group?“I’m going to go home, eat some dinner, talk about it with my guys and maybe talk to them (management) tomorrow,” said Butler, who added he hoped to remain with the Bulls. “Whatever upstairs feels we need or we don’t need. That’s up to them. As a player, myself and everybody else back in the locker room, we have to go out there and play. The guys they put together have to do their best to win games and represent for this organization.“A lot of the roles have changed,” Butler said about the 41-41 regular season. “Lineups have changed. Props to the (young players) because they’re always ready. It’s hard to stay ready when you don’t know when your name is going to be called. I’ve got a lot of faith in those young guys. They work. They listen. They don’t complain. They do what you ask them to do. That’s all you can expect out of young guys. He’s (Rondo) been huge for us this year. Molding these young guys into the type of player they need to be on the basketball floor and in the film room, the way he plays the game, getting everybody involved, I love playing with him. Him and D-Wade. But I don’t know what the future holds for anybody. So I’ll sit back and wait on that time to come.“When that time comes, I’m sure we’ll sit down and talk about it (with Wade),” said Butler. “Right now, you have to rest your mind. It’s a long way away. I’m sure he would tell you the same thing. But when that time comes, I’ll sit down and talk to him, probably face to face and see where his mind is at and where mine is.”Wade, who had his poorest game of the season, said he needs time to decompress. He has a player option of $23.8 million to return for next season. Rondo has a $3 million buyout and team option for $13.4 million for next season. Butler remains under long term contract.“Lot of stuff on my mind now,” said Wade. “I’m proud of these guys in here; they competed. Went through adverse situations. That’s not for me to say right now (about a return). Obviously, that’s not even my job. I don’t want to speak to that.“I have a lot of time,” said Wade about his option. “I’m far away from that now; just got through this 14th NBA season; it’s for me identified with championships. If I’m not winning a championship, I’m never satisfied from that standpoint. But you take things out of it, you go back and look at the season and see what you could have done better individually. I am not worried about my future because I know it’s basketball; I’m not really concerned with it now.”Hoiberg said personnel decisions, the draft and free agency are now to be considered. But Hoiberg did say he loved coaching Rondo, who did not meet with reporters.“Obviously, we played great basketball with Rajon toward the end of the season,” said Hoiberg of the 7-2 finish and 2-0 start to the playoffs. “Obviously, the two games he was healthy in the playoff we won those. So he was terrific, great. The highs and lows we had this season, he found a way to continue to battle through that and play his best basketball when it mattered most. I love Rondo, I love coaching him, I love everything about the kid. He was so good to have on the floor and when we put him back in the starting lineup with Niko (Mirotic) with Jimmy we got a lot accomplished. We played an exciting style of basketball, a fun style of basketball to watch, a fun style of basketball to coach and Rajon was responsible for a lot of that.“The way we were playing since the trade (of Taj Gibson and Doug McDermott), 16 of 29 games with 10 or more threes and Rondo was a big part of that,” said Hoiberg. “Getting into the paint, getting us out with pace, having guys run with him. We lost that when he went out; the opportunity to get easy baskets, which he did a great job of for us. I love everything about what Rajon gave us. We peaked and played our best basketball at the end and he was a big part of that.”That Rondo wasn’t any part of the last four games, all losses and the last three in the United Center, will lead to a lot of what if. The Celtics were healthy, but it’s doubtful five more Rondos could have made a difference Friday.With Avery Bradley leading five Boston players scoring in double figures with 23 points, the Celtics pushed the Bulls around, moved more swiftly and with purpose.v
 
The Bulls starters came out lethargic with Butler playing through a sore knee, their last gasp in Game 5 back in Boston. They had little left as the Celtics hit them with three pointers on Boston’s first three possessions and the rout was on.It was 21-11 Celtics six minutes in, 42-25 early in the second quarter, 84-54 midway through the third in a game when strategy paled in comparison to strength. Quote the Bulls, nevermore for this one.“It wasn’t (Rondo’s absences),” said Butler. “A lot of mishaps, a lot of switches we weren’t supposed to switch, a lot of not closing out. Playing to people’s weaknesses, we didn’t do that very well. It leads to what happened tonight, a lot of open shots. They are a good team. They make those, we have to come out better with more effort and focus on the personnel we are guarding.”Maybe next time; next season.“No one can be more disappointed than the players in the locker room,” said Wade. “We are the ones who put in all the blood, sweat and tears. Of course, we would have loved to win every game, but it’s not in the cards. It’s not the team that was put together that way.“They shot the three ball here better than they did at their place and we played better at their place than we did here; very weird series from that standpoint,” said Wade. “At the end of the day they came out and took care of business. We put a fight up, made it a tough series. We can all speculate of how different it could have been. Obviously, we got a chance to see two games with our team with what we were able to do and we won two in a row, which is good. But that’s a part of a lot of guys’ careers, a lot of teams, the what ifs. We didn’t win; we go into the summer and try to get better.“At the end of the day we wanted to make the playoffs; we did that. Injuries are part of the game. It always sucks when you don’t get to see the full potential of the team from that standpoint. When training camp started we weren’t a team talking championship; we were talking steps, steps to get to the playoffs. We were able to do that; so we took a step in the right direction."To the valley of the death of the season rode the Bulls 15. There was no glory this time. Perhaps another time.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
The Chicago Bulls have exercised the third-year option on Lauri Markkanen, and fourth-year options on guards Kris Dunn and Denzel Valentine. By exercising their options, all players will be under contract with the Bulls for the 2019-20 season.Markkanen came to the Bulls in a Draft-night trade with the Minnesota Timberwolves on June 22, 2017, in which his rights were acquired, along with Kris Dunn and Zach LaVine, in exchange for Jimmy Butler and the rights to the 16th selection in the 2017 NBA Draft. Markkanen was selected to the All-Rookie First Team last season after playing in 68 games (68 starts) and averaging 15.2 points, 7.5 rebounds and 1.2 assists in 29.7 minutes per game. Markkanen set a Bulls’ franchise record for most 3-point field goals made in a rookie season (145) and was the fastest rookie in NBA history to reach 100 3-pointers made when he hit 101 through his first 41 games. Markkanen was also a participant in the 2018 Mtn Dew Kickstart Rising Stars Game and a finalist in the Taco Bell Skills Challenge during All-Star Weekend in Los Angeles.The Bulls acquired Dunn in the Draft-night trade with the Minnesota Timberwolves on June 22, 2017. Last season, he played in 52 games (43 starts) and averaged 13.4 points, 4.3 rebounds, 6.0 assists and 2.00 steals in 29.3 minutes per game. His career averages are 7.6 points, 3.0 rebounds, 3.9 assists and 1.39 steals over 131 games. Dunn scored a career-high 32 points to go along with nine assists on Jan. 5, 2018, at Dallas, and he joined Michael Jordan as the only two players for the Bulls to have a game with at least 20 points, 12 assists, four steals and two blocks on Dec. 26, 2017, at Milwaukee. Dunn has played in one game this season on Oct. 22 at Dallas, and he scored nine points with four rebounds and seven assists.Valentine was selected 14th overall by Chicago in the 2016 NBA Draft. He played in a team-high 77 games in 2017-18 (37 starts), and averaged 10.2 points, 5.1 rebounds and 3.2 assists in 27.2 minutes per game. He has averaged 8.0 points, 4.1 rebounds and 2.3 assists in his career over 134 games. Valentine’s 143 3-pointers made last season rank as the 11th-highest single-season total in Bulls history. On March 17, 2018, vs. Cleveland, he recorded career highs in points (34), field goals made (13) and 3-pointers made (eight).

CHICAGO – Kirk Hinrich and Derrick Rose tallied 20 points apiece but the Chicago Bulls fell to the Cleveland Cavaliers 114-108 in overtime on Friday night at the United Center.LeBron James, who scored his team’s first eight points in the extra session, led Cleveland with 36 points and eight rebounds.Rose, meanwhile, suffered a left ankle sprain in the second quarter and though he returned to action, did not play down the stretch.Aside from Hinrich and Rose, five others scored in double figures for Chicago, now 1-1 on the season. Pau Gasol recorded 15 points, nine rebounds and six blocks, while Mike Dunleavy finished with 14 points, nine rebounds and eight assists.The Bulls shot 57.9 percent in the opening quarter but it was the Cavaliers who owned a 28-27 lead after the first 12 minutes. Cleveland extended its lead to seven in the second quarter with James on the bench and led by as many as 10 before the half.Rose scored 18 of his 20 points prior to intermission, but the Bulls went to the break trailing 58-52.Cleveland was up 78-69 as the teams entered the final frame, but Chicago opened the fourth with an 8-2 run. The Bulls would eventually reclaim the lead, 84-82, with 6:33 remaining in the game. It was shortly after that point that Hinrich heated up as he scored eight points in a row, including a pair of threes, to give Chicago its largest advantage of the night, 96-91.The Bulls, however, couldn’t close out the Cavs and though a Kevin Love attempt at the buzzer missed, it was James’ show in overtime.Jimmy Butler missed his second straight game with a left thumb sprain.Up next, Chicago will visit the Minnesota Timberwolves on Saturday night.



The Chicago Bulls open the 2015 NBA Playoffs at home vs. the Milwaukee Bucks.Bulls Playoff Tickets on sale now at Bulls.com, NBATickets.com or 1-800-4NBA-TIX. 

So did Dwyane Wade play his last game with the Bulls dressed like Kermit the Frog?It isn’t easy being green, as we’ve been told, and it wasn’t easy being Wade Wednesday night in the Bulls annual jersey tribute to St., Patrick’s Day. Wade in the fourth quarter sustained an elbow injury that he and we pretty much knew meant the end of the season. He said he heard it pop. Popping sounds are not good for body parts. An MRI Thursday morning confirmed the sum of everyone’ worst fears, what Wade described as, “a fractured bone and some ligament damage. Technical terms would be a sprain or whatever.”Whatever it’s called, and Wade said surgery isn’t necessary, the Bulls said Wade would miss the rest of the regular season. He perhaps could return if the Bulls make the playoffs, but that’s questionable. With an option on his contract for next season, will Wade return at all?“Mentally, I’m good,” Wade said Thursday morning before the team left for Washington. “The only thing I can do is try and move on from yesterday and try and get better each day. Last night I kind of knew I was going to be here. Tried to mentally wrap my brain around it last night and now today all I can do is come in with a positive mindset and move forward. It sucks; it’s unfortunate. It’s not the way I would have written it, but it is what it is. No surgery, so that’s one thing I’m happy about. I’ll just rehab and hopefully get on the court at the end of this year, and if not this year at some point next year.“At this point, it’s too much cart in front of the horse,” Wade said about looking to where he will play next season.  “Couple hours removed, but definitely too soon.”Wade has a player option for a salary of about $24 million next season with the Bulls. He has said he isn’t inclined to chase a title since he has three and will make judgments based on finances, family and team situations.“It took me awhile to really get comfortable in these new surroundings,” Wade said about signing with the Bulls after 13 years with the Miami Heat. “But then I finally got comfortable and I thought I played the way I wanted to. Coach did a great job of controlling my minutes. I tried to make adjustments to the different styles of play, different teammates and roles that I had. But overall, I thought I did a good job.”Wade finished the season for the Bulls playing 57 games. He averaged 18.6 points, 4.5 rebounds and 3.9 assists. He shot 43 percent, which was a career low, but 31.3 percent on threes, about double his percentage from last season. That made his overall shooting percentage comparable to last season, though he played 74 games for Miami. His assists also were a career low and his minutes played a career low 30.2. Wade now has averaged missing about 20 games each of the last five seasons. Wade turns 36 next season. The Bulls were 5-6 in games he did not play.Which is why there still remains hope for a playoff run even with Wade’s injury.“Looked like he got his arm caught up on somebody's shoulder and then somebody hit it from the backside, and he's got a partial tear and a fracture in there,” said Bulls coach Fred Hoiberg. “So it's obviously not what we wanted to hear. But it gives the next guy an opportunity to step up. We've got to try to figure out exactly what to do with the rotation from here, but to not have Dwyane the rest of the season is a tough blow for our team. We have shortened our rotation some. We're hopefully going to do everything we can to put ourselves in a position to win and then see what happens.”The immediate need is a new starting shooting guard, which figures to be Denzel Valentine. Valentine was three of seven on threes against Memphis and has become one of the better long range threats since the trade of Doug McDermott. He’s made 13 threes the last five games.Nikola Mirotic also figures to get more playing time and Hoiberg said there has been discussions about Mirotic starting.Without Wade, the Bulls do, in theory, put on the floor more of a semblance of the sort of “pace and space” type team they often talk about but fail to put into practice. Except in practice. Though obviously with less veteran savvy.There obviously will be more expectations on Jimmy Butler, who has slumped since the All-Star break, seemingly mired in a mixture of late season fatigue from carrying the two-way load, the after effects of a heel injury and the disappointment of a second season in a row facing no playoffs.“It’s an opportunity league for certain guys and it comes in different ways,” said Wade. “So this is an opportunity for someone that probably wasn’t getting enough time that they wanted, probably wasn’t getting the touches they wanted. This is going to be an opportunity to step up and try and help this team as we are in this battle to make the playoffs down the stretch. So from a teammate, from a fan perspective of the game, you want to see who steps up to that.“A lot is going to go on Jimmy’s shoulders,” said Wade. “But a lot has been on his shoulders already, so he’ll be fine. Just focus on what (Butler) needs to do and that’s to go out the last 14 games of the year and kick (butt) and help lead this team to the playoffs. It’ll be an even better story with me out of it. It’s a challenge for him. And I look to see how he rises to the challenge.”The Bulls have begun to show signs of that faster game with Rajon Rondo back in the starting lineup and playing his best of the season. The Bulls have recorded an impressive 15 fast break points in five of the last six games and have been averaging about 10 threes made per game the last six games. Plus, Rondo is taking advantage of the short sideline corner for threes and has been the team’s best three-point shooter in March. The elements are there for more transition since while Wade is a valuable fourth quarter scoring option, he also slows the game with isolation play to get his shots.Jerian Grant has shown an ability to make threes, which gives the team its most three-point shooting options it perhaps ever had. So with Wade lost and few, obviously, expecting the Bulls to make a run, there’s time for guys to earn a look for beyond this season and to make it a surprise finish.“To have Dwyane out of the lineup now again, Jimmy's going to have to have a lot of responsibility as he has all season, but other guys are gonna have to step up as well,” said Hoiberg.  “It's going to take a great mindset by everybody to step up their games. Got to make up for almost 20 points per game with Dwyane out of the lineup right now, and hopefully, collectively, as a group we all step up and fill that void.”And make it perhaps 50 shades of green and a season worthy of an emerald instead of just looking green.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

Now they’re ready. But can the Bulls handle the Philadelphia 76ers?Yes, this season gets weirder and weirder.The Bulls Sunday in the wake of their verbal outbursts, fines, social media navigations, benchings, team meeting and gruesome losses try to regain some balance against the team that has been the joke of the NBA for the last three years and now has won 10 of its last 14 games. Suddenly, the 76ers are as close to catching the Bulls as the Bulls are to catching the fourth place Atlanta Hawks.And then the Bulls go west for their most challenging road trip of the season, six games against three of the top six teams in the Western Conference and closing Feb. 12 against the developing, young Timberwolves.So the Bulls Saturday took out their “This is The First Day of the Rest of your Life” coffee mugs and decided with a spirited practice, OK, it starts now.“Look, we’re fortunate to be in the East,” Taj Gibson admitted after practice with the Bulls—despite all this—still tied for seventh place in the Eastern Conference at 23-25. “We’re fortunate to have everybody going through the same problems we are going through, but I also explained to the guys we are fortunate. This is a blessing (playing in the NBA), an opportunity to make a great living for ourselves. So go out and enjoy it while we still can. I told the guys in the locker room it was just bad timing; the game (Friday losing to Miami), we just weren’t prepared for a team like that coming in on a real hot win streak. That morning took a lot out of us.”That morning, as perhaps it may always be referenced with this group, was apparently an intense, confrontational, passionate, soul searching session among players, coaches and team management.It came in the wake of the blown lead against Atlanta Wednesday, searing comments from Dwyane Wade and Jimmy Butler, an aggrieved response from Rajon Rondo and then fines for the three, early benchings for Wade and Butler, and then a team desperate for victory but with little energy left after the draining, long morning session Friday. Butler and Wade had two of their poorest games of the season, and it was another loss.But the sun did come up Saturday, though being it was Chicago in January that was mostly rumor and hearsay. We did see it elsewhere on TV, and Gibson, the most standup guy the Bulls have, came to stand up before the media after practice when everyone else probably was mostly talked out.And worn out from what by all accounts was a fiery and frenzied practice session that included Wade. That actually was somewhat unusual as Gibson conceded one of the issues during the meeting voiced by the young players accused by Wade was his lack of practice. Though that has been by agreement with the coaching staff and management because of Wade’s age and experience.Still, Gibson said Wade was out there in full perspire, an encouraging symbol of a new day.“Everybody was focused today in practice,” Gibson said. “There was less talking, a lot of competitiveness. There wasn't really any bad vibes.“Probably about a four, four or five (out of ten), maybe,” Gibson said when asked about the magnitude of this particular Bulls misadventure. “I've seen worse. I’ve been in some chaotic yelling matches with Thibs (Tom Thibodeau) and everybody just going crazy and I’m sitting there thinking, ‘Don’t call my name, please.’ I was shocked how we came out of it and made us a better team. We talked it out, got everybody going, got some things off guys' chests. I didn't take anything negative from it.“It was intense,” Gibson said. “Guys and coaches were able to really speak what they want from guys. Guys challenged each other and it was good to hear from all members of the team, especially our young guys, what they need, what they want. I think it was a positive. Our whole team is a young bunch; but you’ve got to have a great group of guys wiling to adapt. I’m a guy going to adapt, Rolo (Robin Lopez) is going to adapt, Jimmy is going to adapt; we’ve got guys trying to fix it and get wins. D-Wade practiced great today; we are not trying to have any negativity. That's one of the things in the meeting: Young guys just want a little bit more from him. And he brung it today. He pushed the young guys. And that's a sign that that meeting did a little something.”Of course, all that will be measured in the standings. But if there have been issues festering that could not be addressed, perhaps it does become a positive turning point. Wade’s message was that sometimes you have to be the villain and unpopular to get your point across, that success in this business transcends popularity. And that Wade was willing to put his Mr. Good Guy image in danger to sacrifice for the team.He’ll also have to back it up on the court, and it seemed like he started on the practice floor.“I do think (meetings) make a big difference,” said Gibson. “Sometimes people don't really mean what they say. The next day after reading it in the papers or reading it from the media or the TVs, you kind of look at yourself and you kind of come in like, 'I didn't really mean it in that kind of way.' And then people will be able to speak freely at what they really mean and other guys get to chime in. It was good for the team. I felt like that morning just sucked so much energy out of the game, a lot of words being said, a lot of tempers. By the end of it, it was all positive.”The questions, issues and concerns, as they often do, led back to the coach, and Gibson had his back.“Yeah, I think he's got control of the locker room,” Gibson said of Fred Hoiberg. “He gives guys a lot of freedom. When he first came here, people said our team needed a much easier kind of guy. We had Thibs, like a drill sergeant. He told you that you can play even when you're extremely hurt. We went out there and we played hard. Was it a good thing for us sometimes? No. But that was just a different kind of coaching staff. Fred is coming from college, this is his second year being around a whole different bunch of guys who have been in the NBA a long time, guys on their way to the hall of fame, guys that have won championships. Fred is just trying to deal with all these different perspectives and then trying to put guys in the right positions. You've got guys constantly complaining; guys want to play. It's tough being an NBA coach. People don't understand that.The talking’s done. So now it’s time for action. The Bulls perhaps get a break, if not the fans anxious to see the latest star, with the 76ers Joel Embiid not scheduled to play on his relaxed, post injury playing schedule. For the Bulls, we’ll see who got the message.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

Snap, crackle, pop is good for breakfast cereal. It’s not so good for elbows. Very bad for the Bulls Wednesday since it was Dwyane Wade’s elbow with the pop, Wade wearing a sling on his right arm meeting reporters after the Bulls 98-91 loss to the Memphis Grizzlies.“It’s kind of hyperextended,” said Wade about the injury suffered in the fourth quarter. “Get an MRI tomorrow. Got caught up going up for a rebound with Zach (Randolph) and one of our big guys; got caught up in there in the midst of stuff and heard a couple of pops.”And like that could disappear a last gasp playoff run.The Bulls fell to 32-36 and into 10th place in the Eastern Conference. Though they are just a game behind Detroit and Miami for the final spot, the loss of Wade could be fatal given his offensive threat and thus the cover against double teams for Jimmy Butler. Butler Wednesday had 14 points on four of 16 shooting and is shooting 38 percent since the All-Star break.The Bulls were led by the resurgent Rajon Rondo with 17 points, making three of four on three pointers. Rondo is shooting 58 percent on threes in March, 11 of 19 and averaging 18.5 points, seven assists and 6.5 rebounds in the two games back starting. Nikola Mirotic back as sixth man had 14 points and Denzel Valentine had 11 points.But the rugged Grizzlies led by Marc Gasol and Mike Conley, each with 27 points, outrebounded the Bulls 52-45 and had 14 offensive rebounds and 17 second chance points to blunt repeated Bulls rallies.“We lost the 50/50 battle tonight,” said Rondo about the loose balls and second chances. “Especially in the second half. That allowed them to get that cushion early in the third (66-52) and we were playing catch up the entire time. We couldn’t get over the hump. Either they’d hit a big shot or they drew the foul, got to the free throw line or they (Conley and Gasol) made the play. Give them credit. They are two great players who have played together like eight years now; they have the chemistry and know how to play with one another.”The Bulls were hoping their Three Alphas could play together and give then a late season boost, but prospects now are uncertain regarding Wade.Butler had a similar hyperextended elbow injury two years ago, and Wade talked in the locker room with Butler about it. Wade didn’t seem encouraged. Butler missed three weeks at the time and 11 games. The Bulls have 14 games left in the regular season and are in Washington Friday.“This a first (kind of injury for me),” Wade said. “I always say I have hope it’s not as bad as I perceive it to be and just get in tomorrow and see what the doctors say. I knew it was something more from what I heard. I tried to play through it a little bit; until the pain started getting (worse).”It happened in the fourth quarter with the Bulls having fought back from that big third quarter deficit to trail 74-71 after three.“We didn’t come out the second half with a sense of urgency, like we are the team out of the playoffs.We have to do a better job of that, making emphasis starting quarters, finishing quarters; that’s what I always try to preach. The last three minutes of the quarters are very important, but also the first three minutes. We do a better job in those two areas."It still was three, 76-73 Grizzlies, when Brandan Wright took a short hook shot with 9:46 left in the game. Wade got his arm tangled with that of Randoph’s going for the rebound along with Cristiano Felicio and immediately grabbed his right elbow.Wade stayed in the game, his right arm hanging down and it wasn’t immediately clear if anything was wrong. He’d slammed his hand earlier in the game on Gasol. The Grizzlies got three offensive rebounds on that possession and then Conley shooting two free throws. Wade stayed in as Valentine made a three on a Wade assist. The Bulls were trailing 78-76 with 8:51 left. Wright committed an offensive foul and Wade went out for Butler and didn’t return.“My concern level is only 14 games left. I never had this injury, so I can’t say two days, two weeks; I don’t know. I know Jimmy had something similar to this and talking to him I don’t like what he had to say about this. That’s my concern. We are trying to make the playoffs and I don’t know how long this is going to take to get better. It’s my shooting arm, too."The Bulls still would have a shot. They would tie the game after Wade left, at 80 with 6:06 left on a Mirotic three, and then at 83 with 4:46 left on another Mirotic three. Coach Fred Hoiberg said after the game the coaches have talked about returning Mirotic to the starting lineup. Which could come next game if Wade is out given the Bulls would need a scoring boost.From there, however, it was all Memphis and pretty much Gasol and Conley. Pau’s brother was too much for Mirotic. It was a tough defensive matchup for the Bulls, who needed Mirotic’s scoring and shooting. Cristiano Felicio played physical Zach Randolph inside as Randolph was dominating the offensive boards. So Mirotic had to try Gasol outside.Gasol drove for a dunk and three-point play with 4:20 left for an 86-83 Memphis lead. Conley lost Butler on a screen and made a three for an 89-83 Memphis lead with 3:41 left. Valentine answered with a three, but Gasol responded with a fadeaway for a 91-86 lead with 3:08 left. The Bulls had one more shot when Rondo, the team’s best three-point shooter the last month, made another three with 2:09 left after Rondo rebounded a Mirotic miss and got the ball back from Mirotic for the score. That cut Memphis’ lead to 91-89.“Just trying to shoot the open shot,” said Rondo. “Trying to take my shot; I’m working on it a lot. My shoulder is hurting a little bit I’ve been shooting so much in practice; just trying to shoot open shots.”Tony Allen then got open for a layup with the Bulls losing track with all the switching they were doing. Rondo then missed his first three in and out. Conley drove and passed back to Gasol for a three with 1:12 left. That gave Memphis a 96-89 lead and not much more the Bulls could do but hope for good medical news for Wade.“It’s tough,” Butler said about Wade’s injury. “We need everybody right now with what we are trying to have happen, especially that guy. If he’s injured, that’s part of the game. I won’t wish that on anybody and we want him as back as soon as possible. He asked me how long I was out and I told him. He said, ‘Oh wow.’“Hopefully it’s not what I had. I know his pain, I can tell you that. They got to all the loose balls. We didn’t rebound when we needed to, missed shots; just not playing the kind of basketball we wanted to play. We’ve been up and down all year and it seems to still be that way right now."No, they’re not gr-r-reat. They still hope to be.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
Not enough went right for the Bulls Wednesday. Which is what generally occurs in a loss, this time 107-98 to the New Orleans Pelicans to drop to 3-9.The Bulls shot below 40 percent overall and below 30 percent on threes. They were out rebounded and fell behind by 17 points in the fourth quarter before rallying within 98-92 with 3:35 left in the game. "Our energy was outstanding after we got down," said Bulls coach Fred Hoiberg. "We had a chance to cut that thing to four. Took a bad shot. So we have a lot of work to do."That was a tough shot by Justin Holiday with the shot clock about to expire that led to a Pelicans offensive rebound and Jrue Holiday driving bank shot. Zach LaVine then missed a hard drive into the citadel of the Pelicans defense. New Orleans followed by getting Julius Randle basically going full court for a layup and 10-point lead with under two minutes left that effectively ended the Bulls late hopes."We've been in every game (since Golden State) and found a way to win a close one against New York," Hoiberg noted. "We battled back tonight; it all goes back to playing the right way from the beginning of the game."The Bulls didn't often enough. Hoiberg actually appeared to call out Jabari Parker for jogging back in transition against a fast break. Hoiberg afterward said it was about overall team offensive execution. Wink, wink. Hoiberg also went to Robin Lopez and Ryan Arcidiacono for extended play in the second half, when Hoiberg noted the effort was much better, after Cameron Payne and Cristiano Felicio were unsound in the first half. LaVine led the Bulls with 22 points, but was nine of 26 shooting as the Pelicans constantly swooped multiple defenders at him while teammates too frequently stood around to admire the Pelicans defensive prowess. Parker played his best offensive game for the Bulls with 20 points and 13 rebounds, but frequently would dribble for 10 seconds and then hand to LaVine and stand aside, at least early in the game. One second quarter sequence was almost a microcosm of the season as LaVine got hot with four consecutive tough scores to get the Bulls within 39-36. Then after he missed one jumper, teammates took five shots before he got another touch. By then the Pelicans had taken a 12-point lead. LaVine also was pretty much ignored in the crucial third quarter sequence when the Pelicans made a 12-0 run for a 77-59 lead. LaVine's driving layup finally stopped that out of a timeout. Likely Hoiberg introduced LaVine to the team at that point, perhaps noting is was pronounced La-vene.Though like they have just about every game this season despite the many injuries and discouraging word Wednesday that Denzel Valentine had a setback and now is out indefinitely, the Bulls didn't quit, forced and fought their way back into the game. If they aren't good enough they usually play like they don't know it. With Anthony Davis getting 32 points, 15 rebounds and seven assists and Jrue Holiday one assist short of a triple double, the Bulls lacked the talent if not the overall desire.And what the Bulls did have going for them was impressive as Wendell Carter Jr. battled Davis relentlessly and finished with 17 points, 11 rebounds and three blocks, quickly becoming the Bulls most vital resource other than LaVine.Somewhat dismissed in the preseason Rookie of the Year projections, Carter has elbowed his way into top contention for rookie honors despite being just 19 years old. Carter is averaging 11.6 points and 8.3 rebounds for the season. But in the last five games as Carter has expanded his offensive play, he is averaging 15.6 points and 10.6 rebounds. He has made four of seven threes and is averaging 2.4 blocks. It's probably placed Carter barely behind Luka Doncic and DeAndre Ayton among the top rookies with Trae Young putting up good scoring numbers on poor shooting. Overall among rookies, Carter is sixth in scoring, second in rebounding and first in blocks."I love how he's growing and it's fun to see him getting better every time he steps on the floor," says Hoiberg.Carter, especially amidst the detritus of the early season injuries and resulting losses, has been commissioner Gordon's beacon in the sky. Carter has been that bright light of hope that gives you the feeling of relief and perhaps optimism that things will get better.Tasked with defending yet another all-NBA player, Carter went right at Davis to start the game, and he was blocked by Davis. But then moments later, Carter finished a fast break score and called Davis with an I'll see your block of his own. They are the games within the game, and perhaps more important for the Bulls to win those, especially with Lauri Markkanen, Kris Dunn and Bobby Portis still apparently weeks away from returning. It becomes more an extended developmental period, and Carter is speed reading his way through. Not exactly like when Woody Allen said he'd taken speed reading and just finished War and Peace. It was about Russia, he said.Carter's course is taking him in depth and detail about the NBA, and already the 6-10 center is becoming almost irreplaceable, as much as LaVine given the absences. The Bulls held former Bull Nikola Mirotic in check with nine points—though 15 rebounds—and were tied at 23 when Carter took his first rest with 1:35 left in the first quarter. Until then, the mighty Davis was two of six. He scored the next two baskets immediately as soon as Carter departed to give the Pelicans a six-point lead.New Orleans hiked it up to 48-36 in that second quarter sequence when LaVine appeared to his teammates to be mimicking Claude Rains and Hoiberg stopped play to gesture to Parker about stopping to read a newspaper during the Pelicans run out after LaVine was stripped. It seemed to enliven Parker, who playing out of the post more instead of pop-a-shot had 10 points and four of five on free throws in the second half."It was an execution thing," Hoiberg insisted about his and Parker's discussion.LaVine, meanwhile, had a sharp drive and lob to Carter for a slam dunk and driving score after the timeout. Hoiberg even drew a technical foul after Carter was elbowed in the head by Davis with no call. Hoiberg seemed to be inquiring of the officials about male cow excrement.Holiday had 17 points, but was three of 12 on threes, several times seemingly motivated to play one-on-one against his Pelicans brother, Jrue. Though with these Bulls there is so much isolation play it's difficult to determine when it's intentional or habit. Arcidiacono added 11 points and three of four threes, playing his usual feisty defense. His shot is so much better and smooth from three, he's one of the players you hope will shoot more, though he remains too reluctant.Carter had a wonderful baseline drive and reverse for a three-point play at Davis after he made a steal and hit a 17 footer to get the Bulls within 65-59 early in the third quarter. Over the next four minutes as he got one attempt and LaVine none, the Pelicans increased their lead to 18. Lopez again gave the Bulls a toughness boost with his third straight game with two blocks in a strong close to the third to get the Bulls within 85-72.Antonio Blakeney was just three of 11 and it's perhaps unfair to consider him a playmaker. He likely doesn't. Clearly on one possession late in the third, the play was called for LaVine. Blakeney had the ball on top dribbling. The Pelicans overplayed the pass to LaVine. It was a tough pass. But no one moved and Blakeney hoisted up a shot. LaVine turned to the bench and signaled with his hand up. Blakeney came out and the Bulls closed the quarter on a 10-5 run. They hit the Pelicans with nine straight points midway through the fourth with New Orleans in a four of 18 shooting stretch. Blakeney back in started to go to the basket and had two impressive driving jumpers in that run. LaVine matched a Jrue Holiday three-point play with his own long three pointer to stay within 94-88 with 5:38 left. Carter had a dunk on a Parker pass and Parker went full court for a driving score to get within 98-92. The Bulls didn't have quite enough left to finish.But with the way Wendell Carter Jr. is starting, the finishes eventually should be more fulfilling.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

The Bulls Wednesday lost top rookie Lauri Markkanen, who because of a minor toe problem for precautionary reasons sat out the Bulls’ 88-77 loss to the Portland Trail Blazers. That made for three Bulls starters from the opening Summer League game lost.But it may not be all bad because of what the Bulls may have found, an athletic scoring guard who looks like instant offense off the bench in Antonio Blakeney.Blakeney Wednesday had 27 points and 11 rebounds, making 11 of 17 free throws with his slashing, high jumping style. That followed Blakeney’s 23 points and eight rebounds in Tuesday’s lone Bulls win. Despite improving play from Markkanen, Blakeney has stood out among his Bulls teammates with his easy scoring ability and elite athleticism.The Bulls, 1-3, now play in the tournament loser’s bracket 7:30 p.m. (Central) Friday against the Philadelphia 76ers. The Bulls last year won the Summer League tournament.The Bulls also got 14 points off the bench from shooter Brady Heslip with four of eight threes and 13 points, seven rebounds and four assists from Denzel Valentine. Ryan Arcidiacono started at point guard as he and Valentine did most of the ball handling and playmaking.The Bulls led early, 19-12 after one and 41-35 at halftime. It was tied at 61 going into the fourth quarter and then Portland pulled away.While Blakeney left you unable to pull away from the game too quickly."I feel I’m an athletic player who can show things on both ends of the floor and rebound. The Bulls, I love the coaching staff, feel they are players’ coaches, getting on me to get better. They stay on you to try to get you better. It’s a young team and with a guy like D-Wade there it’s someone I can learn from."“I’m with the Bulls, so I’m a Bull right now and that’s what I’m focused on,” Blakeney said.That’s just for Summer League, though Blakeney said he appreciated the Bulls giving him this opportunity. Blakeney could be invited to training camp, though his play likely has opened some eyes about the undrafted player from LSU. One possibility this year for developmental players is the new so called two-way contract in which a player can shuttle between the G-league and the NBA and when in the NBA be paid an NBA salary.Blakeney projects as a shooting guard, but was overlooked in the 2017 draft because of the biases that tend to label players like Wesley Matthews, Isaiah Thomas and Draymond Green the sort of “tweeners” who slip low in the draft or out. Blakeney is considered a bit short by current NBA standards for shooting guard at just below 6-4. He’s about 195 pounds. He doesn’t handle the ball particularly well or pass frequently, especially when he drives.But, oh can he score, and it’s sometimes forgotten what a good thing that can be in a basketball game.Blakeney seems like one of those players like Lou Williams, who slipped to 45th in the draft because, well, he was a little small for shooting guard, didn’t pass and handle the ball well enough for point guard. So where could he play? Who could he guard?And then became good enough to win Sixth Man of the Year and become one of the elite and most valuable reserves scorers in the NBA. Players like Sedale Threatt, Flynn Robinson and Fred Carter come to mind, guys who were too small, or too light or too limited. But then found a way to get the ball in the basket.This Bulls team looks like it will need another someone--or two--like that.Blakeney showed that again Wednesday. He routinely beat defenders off the dribble-yes, Summer League—and was two of four on threes. He’s quietly been easily the Bulls best three-point shooter, making nine of 14 in the four games. The Bulls averaged 15 free throws per game the first three games; Blakeney had 17 on his own in Game 4.His defense is scattered, though not helped by playing for a generational underachieving LSU program in which he played with Ben Simmons in 2015-16. It might have been the NCAA’s worst defensive team. He seems willing to learn.He is active on offense off the ball as well. He ran the baseline Wednesday for back door cuts and scored and showed an ability to finish. His driving baseline dunk in Game 2 was probably the Bulls most spectacular play of the tournament and he drew a pair of free throws early against the Trailblazers trying to dunk on the run taking off from near the free throw line. Though thin, he was able to finish and score with contact for three-point plays.He’s an excellent defensive rebounder with his leaping ability, though often because he plays too far off his man. He had a curious habit in these games of calling for a screen and then not using it and going the other way. But he was so quick he repeatedly beat the defense. Though he did have some trouble with the ball when trapped and once he was driving, no one else was getting the ball.But that sort of game has served a lot of players well.Blakeney’s story is not unusual, a bigtime prep prospect who was one of the stars of the 2015 McDonald’s game in Chicago with Simmons, a high school buddy who recruited Blakeney to LSU. Blakeney was one of the top guard prospects in the country, averaging almost 30 a game in high school. He supported Simmons on a lost, non NCAA team in 2016 and then was the leading scorer on a worse team last season as the coach was fired. Blakeney, 20, declared for the 2017 draft, but with his apparent lack of a sure NBA position and the mess in college, his name wasn’t called.He wasn’t detoured or discouraged.“I was an undrafted player, so me and my agent looked at the options I had for the Summer League and we thought the Bulls were the best option for me,” Blakeney said. “I had a great (pre) draft workout with the Bulls and they told me they had some interest. So this was a chance to come in and give another impression to them, to work and learn from it."They felt I was a good story, but there are things I needed to work on, like defense. They were honest with me. The coaches are on me here in camp to get better and I like that. I want to get better, work on my weaknesses. So it’s a good thing."“We were not a winning program, so that hurt me,” Blakeney conceded. “But the draft is over. I’m still chasing my dream. To get drafted high is not the ultimate goal. It’s to play in the league multiple years. So that’s what I’m working toward. I’m not worried about what happened in the draft. I have to move forward.”Blakeney looked like just another one of those Summer League tackling dummies to start, playing 13 minutes in Game 1. But he made two of three on three pointers and had a plus-13 in the plus/minus in a game the Bulls lost by 16. Summer League coach Randy Brown moved his minutes up to 23 off the bench in the Game 2 embarrassment when Markkanen and Valentine missed all 18 of their threes. Blakeney was one of two on threes and had 11 points in a game the Bulls scored 55. His minus-5 in a game the Bulls lost by 20 was team second best. The Bulls were doing better the more he was on the floor.With Kris Dunn and Cameron Payne leaving for family reasons, Blakeney Tuesday moved into the starting lineup. The last two games, he has been one of the most productive players in the Las Vegas league, averaging 25 points and 9.5 rebounds with an average of 10 free throw attempts per game.“I can bring scoring,” Blakeney notes. “People know I can score. I think what people are going to sleep on is once I learn the defensive concepts and with my athleticism, I feel I can be a two-way player and get things done on both ends of the floor. Offensively, I feel I can score at all three levels: I can get to the rim, get to the mid range and shoot the three. As a young player, I know I have to get stronger, get my ball handling tighter, work on my defense.“People can think different things, but I’m trying to work on everything and be one of the best players in the league,” said Blakeney in not limiting his ambitions. “That’s my goal, so I have to work on everything. It’s definitely a challenge, but one I’m looking forward to, a fun uphill ride and I feel I’m ready for it. My agent helped me stay grounded, always told me the draft isn’t everything, pointed to guys like Wesley Matthews, guys not getting drafted who succeed in this league. I’m going from there.”The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.Is he ready?Is he back?It’s beginning to look more and more like Derrick Rose’s latest return from knee surgery could be Wednesday in Orlando.Unless it isn’t.Sorry about that. Actually, I do believe Rose will play Wednesday when the Bulls visit the Magic. Why else would I go to Orlando when it’s 44 degrees and overcast in Chicago and 80 degrees and sunny in Florida?OK, forget that one.The first sign—other than Rose practicing with the team for the last week or so—was the Bulls Tuesday releasing their league mandated injury update. It has both Rose and Kirk Hinrich listed as questionable.That’s an upgrade from previous reports that listed Rose “out,” and others which were, “Don’t ask.” Well, not really. But no one much did.Rose last played against Milwaukee Feb. 23 when he had his poorest game of the season, shooting one of 13 for eight points in a win over the Bucks. He reported discomfort. The Bulls followed up with an MRI, which revealed a small tear in the meniscus in his right knee. It’s the same knee where he had the meniscus repair in November 2013. That surgery was a full repair with a long rehabilitation. This time it was a removal procedure, which results in a faster return. The Bulls projected four to six weeks for recovery. Friday would be six weeks from the day of surgery.It’s not an unusual procedure. Both Eric Bledsoe and Russell Westbrook had the procedure multiple times, like Rose, and have been back playing at a high level. Rose has had no issues with his left knee where he had the ACL procedure since that injury three years ago.So Rose probably is ready or close to a return, which has several options.It could be Wednesday (my guess from sources who may or may not know) and then perhaps skip Thursday’s game in Miami and then finish the season playing at home Saturday, in Brooklyn Monday and home against Atlanta to close regular the season next Wednesday.The Bulls will meet with reporters Wednesday before their game day shoot and dribble around practice. So it will still be a game time decision as even the team cannot make a judgment until they see how Rose gets through the workout Wednesday morning.If there are any issues, he could wait and then play in Miami Thursday with an offday Friday and then play at home Saturday.Or Rose could opt to return at home Saturday against a less talented opponent playing for nothing, like the 76ers.Rose said on ABC Sunday during the game with the Cavs he probably will play this week. So it’s unlikely unless something unexpected occurs that he would wait until next week to play.Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau has remained consistent in his view of Rose’s return, saying repeatedly it will happen when Rose is ready, that they will limit Rose’s playing time, that conditioning will be an issue, not to expect too much too soon and why doesn’t anyone ask about Cameron Bairstow. Maybe someone should. Anyway, just having Rose on the floor will be a bonus to everyone because of the threat he is to the defense and enabling the Bulls to return to their regular rotation.“With any player, when he goes through rehab he has to go through the rehab step-by-step, and even though he may be cleared you have to make sure the player is ready to be out there,” said Thibodeau. “That’s the final step. The player has to feel good about getting out there. When he’s comfortable enough he’ll be out there. He’s been cleared for the contact part of it. Being cleared for contact doesn’t mean you’re ready to play. It just means now there are no restrictions in terms of practice. He does everything in practice. But you have to remember, he’s been out for a long period of time. You don’t just jump into a game from there. It’s not going to be anything other than get out there, give us the best you have, run the team. We don’t expect him to be great. Just run the team, play to your strengths, cover up your weaknesses and concentrate on the improvement.“Just Derrick on the floor helps our team,” said Thibodeau. “Only he knows his body. I trust him. When he says he’s ready, he’s ready."And just in time?Perhaps, yes, the Bulls are finding Rose just in time because before their time was running low. The Bulls were 36-21 after Rose’s last game and now are 46-31.Rose averaged 18.4 points and a team high five assists in 46 games, all starts, averaging 31 minutes per game before he was injured. The Bulls endured without him, and Aaron Brooks did well with Nikola Mirotic having a big month to help the team survive in Rose’s absence. But the numbers show the Bulls are average, at best, without Rose even with Pau Gasol playing at a high level and Jimmy Butler continuing his terrific season and leading the team in scoring at 20.1 per game.Rose was having some of his best games of the season just before that All-Star break, averaging 22 points the eight games before the All-Star break with two games of 30 points, including in the win over the Cavs. But with a week break for All-Star, Rose came out slowly. He averaged about 11 points in three games before going out for the surgery. Though this time Rose has been again working and practicing regularly with the team the last few weeks.But no matter what he can bring, it makes the Bulls whole again as Hinrich said he should return soon as well and thus also should strengthen the bench with Brooks’ return to his expected role.Because playing .500 ball is no way to prepare to be a champion or make a significant playoff run. So you could say the Bulls were lost, their bridges all were crossed, the losing dice were tossed, there was nowhere to go.The Bulls are 15-4 this season with their regular starting lineup of Rose, Butler, Mike Dunleavy, Joakim Noah and Gasol. Many around the NBA give that one a big if. But if it is healthy it is a formidable lineup for the playoffs. And perhaps coming together just in time?Because if now Rose is here the Bulls can say where they are going; no more doubt or fear. Perhaps they’ll find their way.Could Wednesday truly be a lovely, lovely day?
The Bulls are evaluating disciplinary action. An update will be provided when applicable.

“Kirk has always been a big part of creating the professional culture we want day in, day out surrounding our club,” said Chicago Bulls General Manager Gar Forman.  “He helps our team in so many ways and Kirk had other opportunities elsewhere, but we are very happy he chose to remain in a Bulls uniform.” An 11-year veteran of the NBA, the 33-year old Hinrich (6-4, 190) has played in 767 (636 starts) regular-season games and averaged 11.8 ppg, 5.2 apg, 3.1 rpg and 1.19 spg in 32.3 mpg.  He owns career shooting averages of .413 from the field, .377 from downtown and .802 from the line.  Hinrich has also appeared in 55 (46 starts) NBA playoff games where he has posted 13.0 ppg, 4.8 apg, 3.2 rpg, 1.29 spg, 33.8 mpg and shot .428 from the field, .399 from behind the arc and .745 from the stripe.
The Chicago Bulls announced today that the team has exercised its right of first refusal and matched the offer sheet extended to guard Zach LaVine by the Sacramento Kings. In accordance with team policy, terms of the contract were not disclosed.LaVine came to the Bulls ahead of the 2017-18 season through a trade with the Minnesota Timberwolves in a Draft-night deal that also included Kris Dunn and the No. 7 pick in the 2017 NBA Draft (Lauri Markkanen) in exchange for Jimmy Butler and the No. 16 pick in the 2017 NBA Draft (Justin Patton).“We were excited last summer when we got a dynamic athlete in Zach LaVine through the trade, and we’re excited now that we get to keep him,” said John Paxson, Chicago Bulls Executive Vice President of Basketball Operations. “Zach showed a relentless work ethic in rehabbing his ACL injury to return to the court, and he has a visible passion for the game of basketball. We know that those attributes, along with his honed skills, will make him an impact player in this league for years to come. We’re thrilled to keep Zach on this Bulls team moving forward.”After recovering from an ACL injury, LaVine made his Bulls debut on Jan. 13, 2018, vs. Detroit. He played in 24 games (24 starts) last season and averaged 16.7 points, 3.9 rebounds, 3.0 assists and 1.00 steals in 27.3 minutes per game. LaVine led the Bulls in scoring in eight games and had 11 outings of 20-plus points.  He scored in double digits in 10 games in a row from Jan. 31 through March 2, and became the seventh player in NBA history to record at least 18 points, five rebounds and five assists in 20 minutes or less vs. Miami on Jan. 15.Originally selected 13th overall by Minnesota in the 2014 NBA Draft, LaVine owns career averages of 14.0 points, 3.0 rebounds and 3.2 assists in 28.7 minutes per game. He was named to the 2015 All-Rookie Second Team and was a two-time participant in the Rising Stars game at All-Star Weekend in 2015 and 2016. He was named MVP of the game in 2016. LaVine is also a two-time Slam Dunk Champion (2015 and 2016).
The Chicago Bulls have signed guard Antonio Blakeney to an NBA contract. In accordance with team policy, terms of the contract were not disclosed.Blakeney (6-4, 197) went undrafted out of LSU in 2017 but was tabbed for the Bulls MGM Resorts Summer League roster last year. After leading that squad with 16.8 points per game, he earned a Two-Way contract from Chicago. In 2017-18, he was named the NBA G League Rookie of the Year after averaging 32.0 points, 6.7 rebounds, 3.9 assists and 1.22 steals per game for the Windy City Bulls. With the NBA Bulls, Blakeney averaged 7.9 points, 1.7 rebounds and 1.1 assists in 16.5 minutes through 19 games. In this year’s Summer League action, Blakeney again led the team with 21.0 points per game, along with averaging 4.4 rebounds and 2.8 assists in five games.
The Chicago Bulls have signed 2018 No. 7 selection Wendell Carter Jr. and No. 22 selection Chandler Hutchison. In accordance with team policy, terms of the contracts were not released.Carter Jr. (6-10, 259) played in 37 games (37 starts) for the Duke Blue Devils in 2017-18 and averaged 13.5 points, 9.1 rebounds and 2.05 blocks. He was only the sixth Blue Devil to shoot better than .500 from the field (.561), .400 from 3-point range (.413) and .700 at the free throw line (.738). Carter Jr. notched one of the best rookie seasons by a big man in Duke history, finishing second all-time among Blue Devil freshman in rebounds (335), blocked shots (76) and double-doubles (16). He was a second-team All-ACC selection, a unanimous pick to the ACC All-Freshman Team, earned NABC All-District recognition, was named ACC Rookie of the Week three times (11/20, 12/26, 2/26) and was a finalist for the Karl Malone Award. Carter Jr. won gold medals with USA Basketball at the 2015 FIBA Americas U16 Championship and the 2016 FIBA U17 World Championship, where he also made the all-tournament team, and was selected for the 2016 USA Basketball Men’s Junior National Team minicamp.Hutchison (6-7, 197) played in 31 games (31 starts) and averaged 20.0 points, 7.7 rebounds, 3.5 assists and 1.48 steals, making him the first player in Boise State history to lead a team in points, rebounds, assists and steals. He finished his Broncos career with 1,478 points and 672 rebounds, putting him ninth and sixth in Boise State program history, respectively. Hutchison also finished his career tied for the most wins (87) in program history. He was named the Mountain West Player of the Year (media) in his senior season, All-Mountain West First Team (media and coaches), to the Mountain West All-Defensive Team, USBWA All-District VIII, the NABC All-District 17 First Team, and was the U.S. Basketball Writers Association National Player of the Week on Jan. 15, 2018.  Hutchison recorded the first known triple-double in Boise State men’s basketball history with 23 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists against Portland (12/1), and he set the single-game scoring school record with 44 points against San Diego State (1/13).
The Chicago Bulls have signed guard Derrick Walton Jr. In accordance with team policy, terms of the contract were not disclosed.Walton (6-1, 189) was undrafted in 2017, but signed with the Miami Heat on a Two-Way contract on July 24, 2017. In the 2017-18 season, he played in 16 games for the Heat and averaged 1.8 points, 1.0 rebounds and 1.0 assists in 9.2 minutes per game. Walton posted a season-high seven points and five assists in a win against the Dallas Mavericks on Dec. 22, 2017. During his time in the NBA G League with the Sioux Falls Skyforce, Walton started in all 27 games in which he played, and he posted 16.1 points, 7.1 assists, 4.0 rebounds and 1.48 steals in 32.4 minutes per game.The Detroit native played four seasons at the University of Michigan, where he holds career averages of 11.6 points, 4.4 rebounds, 3.9 assists and 1.15 steals in 31.9 minutes per game. Walton is the only player in Wolverine history to record 1,000 points, 500 rebounds and 400 assists in his career. As a senior in 2016-17, he was named to the All-Big Ten Second Team and the Big Ten Tournament Most Valuable Player.

"We are really excited to add such a versatile player to our roster who has been both an All-Star and an NBA Champion,” said Chicago Bulls General Manager Gar Forman.  “Pau is a skilled player with a high basketball IQ and is a true pro and a proven winner.” Gasol (7-0, 275), a 13-year veteran of the NBA, comes to Chicago after spending the past six-plus seasons with the Los Angeles Lakers.  While with Los Angeles, Gasol helped the Lakers make three straight trips to the NBA Finals (2008-10) that resulted in the franchise’s last two NBA Championships (2009, 2010).  Prior to his run with the Lakers, the Spanish big man was a member of the Memphis Grizzlies for more than six seasons (2001-08). A four-time NBA All-Star (2006, 2009-11), and a three-time All-NBA selection (Second Team in 2011; Third Team in 2009, 2010), Gasol has played in 905 (892 starts) regular-season games and averaged 18.3 ppg, 9.2 rpg, 3.3 apg, 1.64 bpg and 0.54 spg in 35.6 mpg.  He also owns career shooting averages of .515 from the field and .750 from the line. In postseason play, the 34-year old Gasol has appeared in 105 (all starts) playoff games and posted 17.2 ppg, 9.7 rpg, 3.4 apg, 1.97 bpg, 0.56 spg, .515 from the floor and .738 from the stripe in 38.6 mpg. A native of Barcelona, he owns a vast wealth of international experience as a member of the Spanish national team.  In 2008, and again in 2012, he led Spain to silver medals in the Olympics after guiding Spain to the gold medal in the 2006 FIBA World Championships.Gasol on joining the Bulls: "It's an honor. I'm proud to be part of an organization where so many great people have contributed."Gasol said he talked with Joakim Noah, Derrick Rose and Mike Dunleavy, among others, before making his decision to come to Chicago.Gasol: "Money obviously wasn't the priority. I turned down bigger offers and I prioritized being on a championship caliber team."Gasol believes Bulls are a contender: "I think we have all the pieces to get there."
Bulls add backcourt depth with local product MooreMoore (6-4, 191), comes to the Bulls after spending the last two seasons with the Orlando Magic.  Drafted out of Purdue University in the second round of the 2011 NBA Draft (55th overall) by the Boston Celtics, Moore spent one season with the Celtics (2011-12). Last season with the Magic, Moore appeared in 79 games (three starts) and averaged 6.3 ppg, 1.7 rpg and 1.4 apg in 19.1 mpg.  He shot .428 from the field, .354 from downtown and .765 from the line. A native of East Chicago, Ind., Moore has played in 192 regular season games (24 starts) and posted averages of 6.2 ppg, 1.8 apg, 1.8 rpg, 18.3 mpg, .407 field goal shooting, .350 three-point shooting and .791 from the line.  
The Chicago Bulls announced today that the team has signed forward Jabari Parker. In accordance with team policy, terms of the contract were not disclosed.A Chicago native, Parker (6-8, 250) was selected second overall by the Milwaukee Bucks in the 2014 NBA Draft and has played all four seasons in Milwaukee. During his tenure with the Bucks, Parker appeared in 183 games and averaged 15.3 points, 5.5 rebounds, 2.0 assists and 1.00 steals in 30.7 minutes per game and shot .490 from the field, .352 from downtown and .747 from the free throw line.“Jabari is a 23-year-old player who is a natural fit with our young core, and is a proven scorer at the NBA level. We look forward to welcoming him back to his hometown,” said Gar Forman, Chicago Bulls General Manager.The Bulls also announced the release of guard Julyan Stone and forward Paul Zipser.
The Chicago Bulls have signed guard Shaquille Harrison. In accordance with team policy, terms of the contract were not disclosed. In a preceding move, the Bulls waived center Omer Asik.Harrison (6-4, 190) was waived by the Phoenix Suns on Oct. 15, 2018. He played in four games (three starts) for the Suns during the 2018 preseason and averaged 7.5 points, 3.8 rebounds, 2.3 assists, 1.25 steals and 1.25 blocks in 22.4 minutes per game. Harrison first signed with Phoenix on Feb. 21, 2018, and averaged 6.6 points, 2.7 rebounds, 2.4 assists and 1.13 steals in 23 games last season, his first in the NBA.In college, Harrison was a four-year letter-winner at the University of Tulsa from 2012-16. He is the only Tulsa player to start every game his team played during his career, averaging 11.1 points, 4.5 rebounds, 3.5 assists and 1.83 steals over 133 games. Harrison left school ranked second all-time with 461 career assists, third all-time with 244 career steals, and second with his 133 starts. He was the only Tulsa player to ever compile at least 1,300 points, 400 assists and 200 steals, and the only player with 50 or more steals in all four seasons.Asik came to the Bulls in a trade with the New Orleans Pelicans on Feb. 1, 2018. He also played for Chicago in the 2010-11 and 2011-12 NBA seasons. He has career averages of 2.9 points and 4.4 rebounds in 152 games for the Bulls. Asik has not played during the 2018-19 season due to illness.

The Timberwolves and Los Angeles Lakers, who hold the top two picks in NBA Draft 2015 presented by State Farm, will square off a day earlier, on Friday, July 10, to tip off Samsung NBA Summer League. In addition, a meeting between the two NBA Finalists, the Cleveland Cavaliers and Golden State Warriors, will complete the opening day of an 11-day, 67-game event at the Thomas & Mack Center and Cox Pavilion on the University of Nevada Las Vegas campus.NBA TV will televise all 67 games at the annual showcase of future NBA stars, culminating with the Samsung NBA Summer League Championship Game at 6 p.m. PT on Monday, July 20 at the Thomas & Mack Center. Also, fans again will be able to watch games live on NBA.com and via the NBA Game Time App. The complete game schedule is attached. The broadcast schedule will be released at a later date.Tickets for Samsung NBA Summer League are on sale now. Fans can purchase tickets by visiting NBATickets.com or by calling 702-739-FANS. Dedicated customer service for NBATickets.com is available at (866) 357-1136 and by email.The 24-team field at Samsung NBA Summer League 2015 is composed of 14 playoff teams from the 2014-15 NBA season, nine teams with lottery picks in NBA Draft 2015 presented by State Farm and an NBA Development League Select Team.Below is the Bulls schedule for Samsung NBA Summer League 2015. Please note all times listed are Central.

The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.The Bulls haven’t been kicked out of the playoffs or had their team shut down quite yet, but it’s perhaps getting dangerously close.The Bulls Monday are in Toronto with Pau Gasol back in Chicago with a right knee swollen. Derrick Rose remains doubtful to play with a groin strain, though Jimmy Butler could return after missing 15 of the last 17 games with a knee strain. He’ll be on playing time constraints.The Bulls are ninth in the Eastern Conference with the most difficult schedule remaining among the contenders for the last spots. The Bulls play 10 of their final 18 on the road while the Pistons and Pacers each have five road games left. The Bulls and Pistons both play eight games against teams with winning records while the Pacers play six. The Pistons also currently hold the tiebreaker against the Bulls while the Pacers lead the Bulls by two games. The Wizards are 2.5 games behind the Bulls in 10th, but would win the tiebreaker if they defeat the Bulls on this trip Wednesday in Washington.“We’ve got to fight through the tough times,” Bulls coach Fred Hoiberg said after Sunday practice. “We’re playing a team that’s won 14 of 15 at home and is playing their best basketball of the season. That’s a big thing with our group, finding a way to fight through these tough times right now. We’re dealing with a lot of injuries and adversity. You can’t feel sorry for yourselves.”It’s often said, it’s darkest before the dawn.Which, by the way, is a good time to steal your neighbor’s newspaper since they won’t see you at that time. But that’s not the point.The point is the Bulls may be feeling like the Delta House guys from the Animal House movie, depressed that everything seems to be going against them, mounting injuries, lost fourth quarter leads, not enough support; perhaps ready to relent.So Hoiberg Sunday in the team’s game film session showed the famous Bluto speech–OK, not quite Churchill’s fight on the beaches speech–when the guys were feeling sorry for themselves after Dean Wormer had “dropped the big one.”This may not have resonated quite as much with Gasol since he’s more the arts patron and Animal House rarely is shown at the Civic Opera House. Though Pau didn’t go with the team to Toronto. Perhaps neither for Nikola Mirotic. Do they have fraternities in Montenegro?Action!“Over? Did you say ‘over’? Nothing is over until we decide it is! Was it over when the Germans bombed Pearl Harbor? Hell no!…It ain’t over now, ’cause when the goin’ gets tough……….the tough get goin’. Who’s with me? Let’s go! Come on!There was the part here where no one followed, like late in some Bulls fourth quarters when they haven’t been following opponents back up court after their many turnovers.“Where’s the spirit? Where’s the guts, huh? This could be the greatest night of our lives, but you’re gonna let it be the worst. ‘Ooh, we’re afraid to go with you, Bluto, we might get in trouble.’ I’m not gonna take this!”You know: “Let’s do it!”Not ’til we say it’s over; or the NBA.Unfortunately, it starts against a Toronto team second in the East and 0-3 against the Bulls this season. Teams usually aren’t circling games against ninth place teams. The Bulls aren’t sneaking up in this one. The last time the teams met in Toronto, Butler broke a Bulls record with 40 second half points in a two-point Bulls victory that ended with one of the last great moments of the season: A team group hug around Butler.Now without Gasol and likely Rose and Butler just returning from missing more than a month, it’s the blazing hot Raptors breathing fire and eying some Bulls.“We showed them a little speech from Animal House today,” Hoiberg said. “You just try to keep their morale up. That’s one thing again. I think we had six straight possessions with turnovers in the fourth quarter the other night, and you could just see our morale continue to go down. We’ve got to find a way to fight through that stuff. That’s been a big thing with this team, fight through the adversity. You have to have it. These last (18) games are crucial in that area.“Pau is a guy especially with Derrick out of the lineup that you can run your offense through,” noted Hoiberg. “We’re still looking at some different options as far as the starting lineup is concerned. Niko will have to play more minutes at that spot, so we’ll have some smaller lineup options out there. Bobby (Portis) will obviously get a shot. Cris (Felicio) after going through the last Toronto game gave us good solid minutes in that game. It’s just stepping up by committee for Pau. One guy isn’t going to do everything that Pau gives us. Guys are going to have to step up and try to fill the void as best they can.”The speculation would be Felicio gets the start against the physical seven-foot Jonas Valanciunas.Hoiberg said Gasol has experienced issues around his knee and said the team will look into treatment options. He had an MRI, which showed no structural damage.Welcome back, Jimmy. You probably get DeMar DeRozan, who has scored at least 30 points in three of his last five games and likely remembers that 40 in a half pretty clearly.“We gave ourselves a chance the other night (in the loss to Miami),” said Hoiberg. “Going into the fourth quarter, it was a one point game. With about eight or nine minutes to go, we just handed them the ball and it led to some run outs. And we were dead. Again, you have a couple of those turnovers and you have to find a way to fight through it. I can’t say what I want to right now. Fight through it and keep battling.”Obviously, Hoiberg was venturing to the intangible part, that vague definition of leadership.It reminded me of a somewhat similar time for the Bulls, late in the 2009-10 season with the Bulls just coming off a brutal double overtime loss to the Nets and traveling to Toronto. They’d probably have to win out the last three to pass Toronto for the final playoff spot. A loss to the Raptors would likely mean the end.“How bad do we really want it,” was on the board in the locker room.And then Joakim Noah went out and got 18 points and 19 rebounds playing through his plantar fasciitis that had caused a minutes limit that season and the Bulls won the big one. They polished off the last two games to make the playoffs. And though they lost to the Cavs and LeBron James in the first round, they had established their claim as a team that would fight you.“I just wanted to make sure that our team played harder than their team,” Noah said theThat’s also what’s missing.Noah, too, is back in Chicago rehabilitating his shoulder. He is out for the season. While you can identify the points, rebounds and assists missing when Gasol, Rose and Butler are out, you can’t measure the intangibles someone like Noah brings, the passion, the attitude, the motivation when you need something special. It’s much overstated about coaches handling that. They rarely do. That comes from your top players, and the loss of Noah has been inestimable this season for those times, as Hoiberg has talked about, when the desire may be there but the will diminishes.“If your spirit gets broken, you have no chance,” said Hoiberg. “We got to find a way to deal with it and go out and give ourselves a chance.”Are they the guys to do it? We’ll start to find out these next few weeks.

The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.Joakim Noah was in the shower Sunday following the Bulls 99-94 loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers rapping. There were lyrics that had something to do with Tony Snell. It didn’t seem like Noah was destined for a new career. Pau Gasol munched at a buffet while Jimmy Butler slipped into something with lots of black and white and gray patterns that appeared to be somewhere between Paris chic and West Texas rugged.The Bulls were hardly happy with the result, but there seemed to be this sense, certainly unstated, of, “That’s it? That’s what they’ve got? OK, all right, all right.”“There’s no moral victories and we would have liked to have played better,” said Mike Dunleavy, who led the Bulls with 24 points. “You lose a game by five, take your hats off to them; great incredible shots, buzzer beaters. They hit those shots they are going to beat a lot of teams. Buzzer beater to end the first, buzzer beater to end the half and a 60 footer. It’s a good barometer for one of the top teams in the East, team that’s probably played the best since the New Year. If we have the opportunity to play them down the road, we feel we can play with them.”So the last 10 days of the NBA regular season for the Bulls will be unlike that for many other teams with uncertainty regarding the seeding and playoff opponents and rotations as Derrick Rose continues to progress and told the ABC broadcasters he “probably” will play this week. The Bulls are in Orlando Wednesday, Miami Thursday and home for Philadelphia Saturday.“Everything has gone according to plan,” Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau said before the game about Rose. “He’s got to keep taking the contact, keep moving forward and hopefully it will be soon. We’re not going to play him the amount of minutes he was playing before he got injured. We’ve got to reestablish a baseline, something where he can get his feet wet and start moving forward. The next part of his rehab is to actually play in the games. It’s a step-by-step process. Just Derrick on the floor helps our team. That’s the important thing. Just like all the other comebacks, he got better as he went along. The same should hold true here. The important thing is for him to be comfortable enough to be out there and once he’s out there, you know we don’t expect him to be playing 35 minutes a night or scoring a ton of points. Just go out there and give us what you have, and that’s good enough because when he plays he makes the game easy for everybody.’’The Bulls could have used more of that Sunday, though there was a wry smile behind the post game words of the players, something of the notion that if they could do this with the Cavs at full strength and on what is now an 18-game home winning streak without Rose, who plays leading scorer Kyrie Irving with 27 points well, then the playoff opponents don’t matter that much.The Bulls have a one game lead over the Toronto Raptors for third in the East, which would likely mean a first round series with Milwaukee and then the winner likely playing the Cavs. If Toronto, which has the tiebreaker with the Bulls by virtue of winning its division, moves to third, the Bulls would play the Wizards in the first round. The winner there would likely face the Hawks in the second round and the survivor likely the favored Cavs in the conference finals.That’s, of course, a lot of ifs and buts and this Bulls season has left no certainties as the Bulls fell to 46-31 and 21-17 on the road with their sixth road loss in their last eight.“We’ve gone through a lot this year, a lot of adversity, lot of adversity,” Noah said with what seemed a bit of frustration and exasperation. “Guys come in every day, work hard; we just have to keep progressing. Usually at this time everybody kind of has the luxury to know exactly who’s playing, what the rotations are, stuff like that. We don’t have that luxury because of various reasons. So we’ve got to keep building. I still believe in this team; we just have to keep fighting. We’re a confident group; we know they are a very good team, but we believe in ourselves.”So tinged with the vexation for Noah and the others is the knowledge that both Rose and Kirk Hinrich, neither of whom played Sunday, should return this week, finally giving the team a semblance of normalcy and a rotation to go into the playoffs. And with that they’ll take their chances.“It would be great to play them in the playoffs,” Noah said of the Cavs. “Very, very exciting; something I really hope happens. When you get on that court it’s a great place to play basketball; that’s as much love as I’ll give to Cleveland. If the opportunity presents itself and we could play Cleveland we would be very happy as a team to be able to do that.”That seemed the most optimistic part of the underlying message after a third loss to the Cavs in four games this season. The Cavs got a quiet triple double of 20 points, 12 assists and 10 rebounds from LeBron James, who wasn’t a major factor and barely grazed rim on several jump shots as Jimmy Butler did well chasing James. The Cavs had just seven fast break points, the same as the usually deliberate Bulls. The Bulls, however, could not contain some Cavs luck and the three-point shooting of Irving and J.R. Smith, the latter who added 24 points. They combined for 12 of 22 three pointers of the Cavs 16 for 37 threes.“Some I thought were defended well,” said Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau of the Cavs’ threes. “Some weren’t. They had three heaves that went in (including an Irving shot put from over half court midway in the third quarter).”That, perhaps, was the crucial juncture of the game for the Bulls as the Bulls committed five turnovers in that stretch and the Cavs went on a 10-0 run to take a 75-60 lead, their largest of the game. It was a rough sequence for Aaron Brooks, who otherwise played well with 17 points but seven turnovers. But don’t blame Brooks. He’s handled the point guard duties well for five weeks in an unexpected role. That will change with Rose’s return and not only give the Bulls better court direction but a tougher defender who has had career success against Irving.“There were a lot of things we did I thought were good,” said Thibodeau. “Rebounding (45-40 Bulls), defensive transition. Overall defense 42 percent, I thought, was good. We were in position down the stretch to win; we didn’t close it out. We didn’t close quarters out as well as we would have liked (Cavs threes to end the first and second quarters). But I thought we had good fight. Every time we got down we made a good run to come back. Those are all good signs. The ball movement was really good (28 assists with every starter having at least four). The turnovers hurt us some. You’d like to have 13 or less (Bulls had 16). That probably got us some. We had a couple of costly ones, but we can correct that.”Otherwise there was a lot of typical Bulls/Cavs, i.e., Lebron.James actually drew the only flagrant foul of the game with a nasty high elbow to Nikola Mirotic in the second quarter in a close game with the Cavs leading 40-36. The Cavs would go on to spurt ahead 54-45 at halftime as Smith put in a 40 footer at the halftime buzzer with the sort of shots you like to see him take. But he made six of eight threes in the first half.The Bulls smothered Kevin Love in his return from back problems. He had a quiet 11 points, stuffed every time he tried to score inside as he typically doesn’t have much lift. But Love did make a trio of three pointers. I thought Noah’s response about the threes was interesting and opened a window to an explanation of some of the defensive issues that have made this Bulls team much less physical that previous ones.“I think I helped off Kevin Love a few times when I should not have,” said Noah “I’m so used to always being the help guy; when I am playing those stretch fours I have to do a better job of staying at home with my man. Other than that they hit some tough shots; that happens. It’s basketball.”In previous seasons with Noah at center, he was in the middle to help and play physically. Now at power forward he’s chasing away from the basket more. His inclination is to help, so he gets caught too deep at times. But it also explains more when he plays with Gasol, who is less physical, why the Bulls defense has ceded at times to the offense.But Noah gets a chance to be physical with the Cavs and had a tough foul on James early in the third quarter with the Cavs leading 65-60. The officials jumped in as James got up and seemed to walk toward Noah. But James was just walking to the free throw line to shoot. On the next possession, Noah would stop a Cavs fast break with a little hip check foul on James. Though they both were common fouls and not really out of the ordinary, Cavs coach David Blatt after the game offered his own dramatic soliloquy about the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune heaped on his star."I thought some of the things that happened were a little overboard. I really do," Blatt said afterward. "But the league will take a look at it and they'll decide what's right."We think the guy doth protest too much.“It was a foul,” shrugged Noah. “He was coming down the lane. I’d rather him shoot free throws than get a dunk. It’s just basketball, I’m not trying to hurt anyone.”It was really just feelings getting bruised this time.The Bulls actually did play pretty well, starting fast ahead 16-10 before the barrage of threes began. Thibodeau ran some nice side to side action to get more catch and shoot threes, which favored Dunleavy who made four of six threes. Mirotic had 12 points and 10 rebounds and three three pointers, though he attempted nine. The Bulls just can’t get enough scoring these days without Rose. Tony Snell remains ineffective, Noah’s scoring has been down and Butler dragged through 42 minutes hanging onto James. So he was held to 16 points, including five in the last minute with the game basically decided. Though as Thibodeau said Rose isn’t coming back to play 35 minutes, the Bulls desperately need his scoring and the threat of his scoring to get easier shots for others. Gasol had 12 points and nine rebounds. But the Cavs got just six points from their bench and little indication where there may be more.The Bulls closed down the lane against James with Noah hedging to help. It did open up some three point shooting, but you generally like Smith attempting 17 threes. That’s not beating you in the playoffs.Noah was hustling and on the floor for loose balls and with a pair of fourth quarter threes from Mirotic, the Bulls got within five points with just over three minutes left. But Mirotic missed a three and Butler and Gasol committed turnovers before the Cavs were finally able to relax after a Love three with 1:14 left. The Bulls would have more rebounds, more assists, a higher shooting percentage from the field and free throw line, though fewer threes and perhaps a few too many jumpers when they should have been challenging the slower Cavs at the rim. Though help may be on the way in that regard as well.“We know how to fix what we did,” said Butler. “We gave them easy baskets. We didn’t execute the way we wanted to. We’re a very confident group of guys. Nobody in this locker room wants to go home early. You’ve got to go through them, anyway; they’re a favorite to come out, anyways. If we want to change that then we’re going to have to be the ones to beat them.”

During the NBA Green Week (April 3 – April 10), the entire NBA family will team up to raise awareness around protecting the environment. To show their support, Bulls players will wear 100 percent organic cotton adidas shooting shirts featuring the NBA Green logo.“The Bulls take part in a number of ‘greening’ initiatives throughout the year including our recycling program with the United Center and an annual community service project with our neighbors at the Blackhawks,” said Scott Sonnenberg, vice president of corporate sales for the Chicago Bulls. “Through our partnership with Constellation for NBA Green Week, we hope to not only raise awareness around being environmentally responsible but encourage fans to take a more proactive role.”Constellation is in the third year of its existing five-year sponsorship with the Bulls, and as part of the “Go Green” game, they will purchase Green-e Energy Certified renewable energy certificates (RECs) to match the electricity use during the game. RECs represent the environmental benefit of electricity generated by wind and therefore avoid carbon dioxide emissions.“Constellation is proud to sponsor our third year of ‘Go Green’ games with the Bulls and the Blackhawks,” said Bruce Stewart, senior vice president and chief marketing officer for Constellation. “We encourage fans to continue their support of the environment through energy conservation and renewable energy resources. Residential customers can choose Constellation as their home energy supplier at home.constellation.com and many can also choose to receive 100 percent wind energy.”Throughout the game, energy tips from Constellation will be shown on the scoreboard to educate fans about how they can be more energy efficient. Benny the Bull will also “go green” and join in the festivities.Constellation invited fans to continue their support for the environment by submitting their own “Go Green” tips @ChicagoBulls on Twitter with #BullsGreenTips. Selected winners received a pair of tickets to Friday’s matchup.In conjunction with Constellation, the Bulls and Blackhawks will also team up for a special “Go Green” community effort this spring. More details about the greening event will be released at a later date.


This is the free and official mobile app of the Chicago Bulls. It delivers an unrivaled interactive team experience by providing the most up-to-date scores, schedules, news, and stats.
The award celebrates outstanding team-produced content.  The league invited each team to submit its best digital content from the 2015-16 season, and team executives voted for the top program."The Bulls created an innovative campaign that truly captured the spirit of the team beyond the court," said Amy Brooks, NBA Executive Vice President, Team Marketing & Business Operations.  "The team developed entertaining content using Benny the Bull and others that inspired people to watch their short form content over and over on social media."The fan response on social media was overwhelming.  The 10 videos posted on Vine received more than 2.6 million loops, and the seven videos posted to Facebook combined for over 4 million views."This innovative Vine series is a great example of how a team can work with a partner to develop creative and engaging content," said Susan Goodenow, Chicago Bulls Vice President of Branding & Communications.  "This content was tailored specifically for digital, seamlessly integrated a partner - BMO Harris Bank - and was made locally with a Chicago-based filmmaker.  These factors, along with a rigorous attention to detail during the production of each Vine, came together to create an incredibly successful campaign that engaged our fans.""Since becoming the official bank of the Chicago Bulls in 2007, BMO Harris Bank has always been proud of our partnership," said Justine Fedak, BMO Harris Bank Senior Vice President and Head of Brand, Advertising and Sponsorships.  "This award recognizes the fun and exclusive content that the Bulls create to better engage their fans around the world using new forms of media and message delivery. We congratulate the Bulls on being ‘Best in Class’ among their NBA peers."Fans join in to help introduce the #BMOVineaBulls seriesYou’ve never seen someone put on a t-shirt quite like this before.The Luvabulls give Bulls fans a never-ending box of chocolates for Valentine’s DayThe 90s night pinstriped throwbacks have some interesting side effects on Benny the Bull
The Chicago Bulls today announced tickets for all 2018-19 regular season home games will go on sale Friday, Sept. 14 at 11 a.m. Tickets can be purchased via Bulls.com, NBATickets.com, the United Center, or by calling 1-800-4NBA-TIX. Season tickets and group tickets are on sale now by calling the Bulls at 312-455-4000.The Bulls are continuing the below special ticket offerings for fans this season:The Bulls will present a number of classic theme nights during the 2018-19 season, including St. Patrick’s Day, College Night, Halloween and more. New this season, the Bulls will host a Pride Night on Jan. 19 presented by BMO Harris Bank. Pride Night will feature a special performance by cast members of the Broadway hit Kinky Boots.The following is the schedule of promotional giveaways and theme nights for the 2018-19 season.All items will be distributed while supplies last. Promotional items and themes may be added or changed throughout the season.

The iconic bull head logo at center court has increased in size by 75 percent and the image of a basketball that was previously behind the logo has been removed.  The “CHICAGO BULLS” text on the endlines has been changed to the font used in the official Bulls logo to make the court design more consistent with the Bulls brand, and the same font has been applied to the “Bulls.com” and the “@ChicagoBulls” text on the north apron of the court.The lines on the court have been changed from red and white to all black to emphasize the bold colors of the Bulls brand.The four stars from the City of Chicago flag have been added to the south apron of the court to highlight the team’s civic pride and incorporate the “Chicago Basketball” branding campaign.
The Chicago Bulls have traded guard Jerian Grant to the Orlando Magic as part of a three-team deal that also included the Bulls acquiring guard Julyan Stone from the Charlotte Hornets. Stone (6-6, 200) has played in the NBA for four seasons with career averages of 1.1 points, 1.1 rebounds and 1.1 assists per game. He went undrafted in 2011, but signed with the Denver Nuggets as a free agent and made his NBA debut on Jan. 11, 2012. Stone has also seen time with the Toronto Raptors (2013-14), and most recently with the Hornets, where he played in 23 games in the 2017-18 season. He also has G League experience with the Idaho Stampede, Iowa Energy and Greensboro Swarm.The Bulls acquired Grant on June 22, 2016, in a trade with the New York Knicks. In his two seasons with Chicago, he averaged 7.2 points, 2.1 rebounds and 3.4 assists, and shot .419 from the field, .342 from three and .785 from the free throw line.
The Chicago Bulls have traded forward Justin Holiday to the Memphis Grizzlies for guard MarShon Brooks and guard/forward Wayne Selden Jr., as well as the Grizzlies’ 2019 and 2020 second-round picks. In a related move, the Bulls also waived guard Cameron Payne.Brooks (6-5, 200) was selected 25th overall by the Boston Celtics in the 2011 NBA Draft, but was moved to the New Jersey Nets in a draft-night deal. He was named to the NBA All-Rookie Second Team during the 2011-12 season. An NBA veteran with five seasons of service, Brooks has also played for the Celtics, Warriors, Lakers and Grizzlies. He holds career NBA averages of 8.0 points, 2.1 rebounds and 1.4 assists in 17.3 minutes per game. This season, Brooks is averaging 6.6 points and 1.6 rebounds in 13.3 minutes over 29 games. He also played overseas from 2014-17 and has played in the G League for the Maine Red Claws and Santa Cruz Warriors.Selden Jr. (6-5, 230) went undrafted in the 2016 NBA Draft. He played three games with the New Orleans Pelicans in the 2016-17 season while on a 10-day contract before being signed by the Grizzlies for the remainder of 2016-17 through this season. Over his NBA career, Selden has averaged 7.0 points, 1.4 rebounds and 1.4 assists in 17.1 minutes per game. This season, he’s averaging 5.4 points, 1.4 rebounds and 1.1 assists in 14.2 minutes per game. Selden also has G League experience with the Memphis Hustle.The Bulls signed Holiday as a free agent prior to the start of the 2017-18 season. He was also with the Bulls during part of the 2015-16 season after being traded from the Atlanta Hawks. In his time with Chicago, Holiday averaged 10.9 points, 3.8 rebounds, 2.1 assists and 1.21 steals in 29.9 minutes per game.Payne came to Chicago via a trade with the Oklahoma City Thunder in the 2016-17 season. Over three seasons with the Bulls, Payne averaged 6.7 points, 2.1 rebounds and 3.1 assists in 18.8 minutes per game.




GAME NIGHT FROM THE UNITED CENTERHouston (2-5, 2-1 on the road) at Bulls (2-7, 1-4 at home)CCI RECAP FROM THE UNITED CENTER:Indiana: 107 Bulls 105.CCI RECAP:
Always a pleasure!
Final from Madison Square Garden:
The Lakers have allowed a league-worst 59 points per game in the paint and they're ninth-worst in rebounding percentage.
FINAL FROM NEW ORLEANS:New Orleans 107 Bulls 98. (Bulls 3-9, 2-4 on the road)The Bulls struggled to make shots, shooting less than 40% from the floor and less than 30% from three point range.Always a pleasure.
The Bulls have more depth than the Cavaliers who for the second time in an eight year period are learning that life without LeBron James is difficult. VERY difficult.The Cavs are winless on the road at 0-5. They’ve won only once in 11 games and they’re without their marquee player in Kevin Love and dependable guard George Hill for one to two weeks with a shoulder issue. Sam Dekker is sidelined 2-4 weeks with an ankle injury.Cedi Osman is sidelined with a back issue. Don’t be surprised if the Cavs in the near future move a few veteran players; certainly before the trade deadline.The Bulls enjoyed their first two day break of the season and should be fresh and ready for the Cavs. You can’t take any opponent for granted. I don’t think the Bulls will. They have some getable home games with the Cavs and Mavs before they hit the road for a Wednesday appearance in Boston.Fred Hoiberg has stressed to his players to attack the rim and that certainly can be applied tonight. Cavaliers’ opponents are shooting a league high 50% and the Cavs are last in block shots per game averaging two per game.Thanks for reading CCI. Reach out to cswirsky@bulls.com or Twitter: @ctsbulls.
FINAL FROM THE UNITED CENTER:Thanks for reading CCI. Today (and every day.) My heart. My soul. Every fiber in my body wants to acknowledge all the Veterans and their families today on Veterans Day. As the son of decorated United States Naval officer I learned so many life lessons from him, ranging from discipline to character to respect. My father loved the United States. A United States that secured freedom and liberties for all and sacrificed many who put their lives on the line 24-7 to let freedom ring. Thank you to those currently serving around the world and thank you to Veterans around the world who served. You and your families and extended families have my total respect and gratitude. You have my prayers. You are not alone. God Bless America.
Bulls (10-31, 5-15 on the road) at Golden State (27-14, 16-6 at home).The Bulls need to get back in transition and not lose sight of the Warriors wings. Golden State can score. And score. And score. I get it. But the Bulls cannot allow open looks. Curry, Durant, Klay, Green, etc. Enough said. The Warriors average 116 points per game. They lead the NBA in field goal and free throw percentages. They’re fourth in the NBA shooting the three at 38%. Expect the Bulls to slow the pace and play a physical brand of basketball.

Caught up with the veteran "Voice of the Suns" the legendary Al McCoy who is respected by everyone in the NBA. Al is an energetic 86 years young. I would love to be calling Bulls games at 86. I'm serious!To my faithful readers, I want to extend a Happy Thanksgiving to you and I sincerely appreciate your support and encouragement.
The Bulls bench tallied 37 points with Jabari Parker and Wayne Selden each scoring 11. Kris Dunn played a solid game 10-5-8, 3 steals and 2 blocks. Bobby Portis missed the game with a right elbow injury.“We talked about courage before the game after a difficult loss, coming into a tough building. Obviously, this is a hard back-to-back, but nobody is feeling sorry for us. No excuses, we battled from down 13. We didn’t fold, we competed. We took control of the game. In the fourth quarter I thought we missed some opportunities we needed to make. [Utah] made the plays that we didn’t. They made a few more plays than we did, got to give them credit. They have a tough, hard-playing team and they got a good win. But, I’m proud of our group and I like the way we battled. I thought we responded from a difficult game last night.”Up next: At Los Angeles Lakers on Tuesday.Thanks for reading CCI. Reach out: cswirsky@bulls.com or Twitter: @ctsbulls
	
Houston 96 Bulls 88 (Bulls: 2-8, 1-5 at home)Thanks for reading CCI. Reach out at cswirsky@bulls.com or Twitter @ctsbullsAlways a pleasure!
The Bulls hit the practice floor today as they prepare for the Lakers tomorrow night. Beginning with Tuesday’s game, the Bulls play every other day including a back to back to end the month of January.On the road, I get caught up on reading, thank you notes, sleep and the TV series “Outlander," which is sort of a take on Game of Thrones...or is it?It was great catching up with family in Portland and seeing Hall of Fame broadcaster Bill Schonely who called Trailblazers games for three decades. Bill continues to serve the Portland franchise as an ambassador and will turn 90 this year. He is beloved in the Northwest. The NBA fraternity is solid and even though the East plays the West twice yearly, relationships bond over time. It also allowed me to spend a few minutes with the Voice of the Blazers, Brian Wheeler, who attended Loyola of Chicago and has been a fixture for two plus decades in Portland.We checked in to our Salt Lake City hotel very early Saturday morning and finally turned in around 3AM. My brain is not equipped to shut down instantly like others. I wish! So I work on my CCI column, read or watch NBA League Pass.I attempt to work out four-five times a week in season. The schedule, eating habits and irregular flow of life interrupt a structured lifestyle. By nature, I am VERY structured, a byproduct of growing up in a U.S. Naval family. I like structure, actually.I am an NBA lifer and I hope I can call games as long as the Bulls want me. I love my job and no one will ever steal my work ethic, energy or passion that I have for my profession. Wins and losses will never dictate my preparation or attitude regarding my profession.
The players had Thursday off but that doesn’t necessarily mean it was “off-off” for some. Normally on a day where a practice/meeting isn’t scheduled, some will stop by the Advocate Training Center and receive treatment, others will get shots up or hit the weights, while some get away from it all.Wendell Carter Jr. is impressing everyone who is connected with the team and for that matter NBA folks around the league. What he’s doing is not a fluke. I’ve been asked countless times, "Is Carter ahead of schedule?". We’ve only played 12 games, but the small sample size is the Bulls once again came through with a slam dunk with the seventh pick as they did with Lauri Markkanen the year before in the Jimmy Butler transaction. Was it tempting to look at Alabama’s Collin Sexton (8th to Cavs) or Kevin Knox (9th to NY) ? Absolutely. But the Bulls needed a big and a hybrid one at that. They found their man in Carter Jr. His ability to post up or step out and hit the mid range jumper or expand his game to three point territory AND he is a rim protector (24 blocks already) as well as an underrated passer. This all is a testimony to how badly he wants to be a versatile, elite player. A consistent player. A winning player. He always puts the team first. When Markkanen returns these two young players will need time to blend, adjust and learn each other’s games. In my book it’s going to be fantastic. There is no doubt in my mind.With Dunn sidelined with a knee injury, Head Coach Fred Hoiberg has gone with Cam Payne as his starter with Ryan Arcidiacono coming off the bench. For the time being Shaq Harrison is out of the rotation but you have to stay ready never knowing when your number will be called as was the case with Robin Lopez in NY where he gave the Bulls a huge lift with 17 quality minutes. Payne is still looking for consistency to his game. Arcidiacono isn’t flashy nor is he the most athletic player on the floor but he can run an offense and provide toughness. For now Coach Hoiberg is going with the player who is playing best with the minutes they have. Simple as that.
Final from Indiana:
The Bulls will go through a practice before departing on their longest road trip of the season with five games covering ten days.
We've all experienced those moments, brief flashes of time that we know would have changed our lives. We call it different things, chance, luck, providence, fate, karma, destiny. We often come to believe, perhaps to reconcile our place in the world, it was meant to be, that some force was guiding the result. It was going to be that way, anyway, right?Hesitating before stepping off a curb before a speeding bus, taking the path that led to the clearing and not the cliff, calling heads when you know you should have been calling tails."Any time I had ever called anything myself with a coin, I always called tails," Rod Thorn was musing the other day. "That was the ironic part of it."Thorn, the longtime NBA and New Jersey Nets executive who was an elite collegiate star before an eight-year NBA playing career, will be enshrined in the Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame Friday in an illustrious class that includes Jason Kidd, Steve Nash, Ray Allen, Charlie Scott, Lefty Driesell and Maurice Cheeks. Thorn's seven-year tenure as Bulls general manager would barely be an asterisk on his impressive resume if not for in his final season with the Bulls drafting Michael Jordan.But if not for the way a coin landed, Thorn would likely be entering the Hall of Fame, if not long before this, as probably the most accomplished general manager in Bulls and perhaps NBA history. While likely having done so for the world's wealthiest ownership group with names like Wirtz, Steinbrenner, Crown, Klutznick and Hunt and in the midst of likely the greatest individual conference rivalry ever featuring the Boston Celtics' Larry Bird and the Bulls' Magic Johnson."If the Bulls had Magic, Reggie and Artis and with Jerry Sloan becoming coach that season, they would have been very good. That would have been a tough team to match up with.""Yes, we would have been a high level contender," says Thorn. "The Bird and Magic rivalry would have been intense with more regular season games. Ownership definitely would have kept the team, definitely. There's a distinct possibility Rod Thorn would have been a more celebrated general manager."Yes, there are instances when you think of things you do and why you did them; that one was not in my control," Thorn acknowledged. "But it changed a lot of peoples' lives; no doubt about it."It's the simple story of the coin flip for the first pick in the 1979 draft, a footnote in Bulls history that could have been NBA headlines for years. The Reinsdorf group likely never would have gotten a chance to purchase the Bulls, the Los Angeles Lakers, like they were in the 1960s and 1970s, would have been more contender than dynasty, Jerry Krause would have monitored baseballs for 20 more years and Michael Jordan probably would been a Dallas Maverick or Philadelphia 76er.And probably still pretty darned good."Life is full of ironies and so if we had won the coin flip and gotten Magic, we never would have gotten Michael. So the Bulls had to delay being good for a few years," said Thorn. "Obviously, it worked out great for both teams."Could it have worked out better for the Bulls?The Bulls of the late 1970s were an underrated team with a Hall of Fame center and future All-Star shooting guard. Led by Artis Gilmore, they barely lost in the 1977 playoffs to the eventual champion Portland Trailblazers. Bill Walton and coach Jack Ramsey called the Bulls their toughest opponent in those playoffs. But with injuries and a coaching change in the 1978-79 season, the Bulls collapsed to a 31-51 record and last in the Eastern Conference.In that era, there was a coin flip for the No. 1 draft selection between the teams with the poorest record in each conference. In the Western Conference, it was the New Orleans Jazz. But from a prior transaction, the signing of free agent Gail Goodrich, the Lakers held the Jazz pick.It wasn't a great Lakers team at the time. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar had forced his way out of Milwaukee to the Lakers, but the trade stripped the Lakers of their depth. They averaged fewer than 50 wins in Abdul-Jabbar's first three seasons and he seemed to be tiring of the load and expectations, even hinting at retirement. The Lakers were third in their division and fifth in the conference, nowhere close to title contention. They had Abdul-Jabbar and future Hall of Famer Jamaal Wilkes, but a mish mash of older veterans like Adrian Dantley and Lou Hudson. Norm Nixon was their point guard.The Bulls roster led by Gilmore and Theus arguably was close in talent, almost comparable.Johnson was the missing piece for the Bulls as well.And he did want to play in Chicago.In subsequent years, Johnson has been quoted, including in one of his several autobiographies, saying he would have returned to Michigan State if the Bulls won the coin flip, that he wanted to play for the Lakers. But that seems more about loyalty to his longtime employer.Thorn and longtime Bulls executive Irwin Mandel said they always were confident Johnson would play for the Bulls. "Magic had said he wanted to go into the pros, that there was nothing more he could do in college as he already won a national championship; I did not remember the Bulls being worried," recalled Mandel, now retired.Johnson's Chicago attorney at the time, George Andrews, said Magic actually seemed to prefer the Bulls."He thought at the time Artis was comparable to Kareem," said Andrews. "He thought he could win with Artis. Magic was very positive about Chicago because it was close to home as a Lansing, Michigan guy. It would have been an interesting situation. Reggie would have played fine with him. Artis, those were his prime years, and Reggie became an All-Star. If the Bulls had Magic, Reggie and Artis and with Jerry Sloan becoming coach that season, they would have been very good. That would have been a tough team to match up with."The kingdom for a magical point guard?"I'm very humbled, very proud (to be going into the Hall of Fame)."- Rod Thorn"We needed a point guard," agreed Thorn. "That's what Magic obviously did, one of the best ever in setting other people up. I think it might have taken us a few years as Magic wasn't a very good shooter when he came in. But we would have been very good within a couple of years."Of course, the Lakers didn't have much shooting, either, in 1979-80 and then won the championship even with Abdul-Jabbar sitting out the clinching game."The Lakers were just OK without Magic," Thorn pointed out. "Magic is one of the 10 best players ever. I do think we would have been terrific."Yes, the coin flip.It was April 19, 1979, about 10 days after the end of the season. There were no draft TV shows then.The Bulls had plummeted after the heady 1976-77 season that had become known as the Miracle on Madison Street. In 13 of the last 15 home games in 1978-79, the Bulls failed to draw 10,000. So in trying to engage the fans, the Bulls promoted a contest for fans to vote whether the team should call heads or tails."Bill Sharman and I were on the call with the league," Thorn recalled. "He was representing the Lakers at the time. The people in New York were asking us who wanted to call it. I immediately said we had this fan vote and, ‘Bill. if it's OK with you, let me call it.' Bill said fine. So I called it heads. It came out tails."Thorn still pauses.Not quite like the stillness back then in the Bulls offices at 333 North Michigan Avenue. There wasn't much Bulls staff then. Brian McIntyre, who went on to work with Thorn in the league office, was there as was Bulls broadcaster Johnny Kerr. Perhaps Kerr was the bad luck. He was a witness in the previous most famous draft coin flip when the Suns Jerry Colangelo first came up with the idea of the fan vote. The Bulls should have learned. The Phoenix fans voted for heads; Colangelo called heads. It was tails. The Milwaukee Bucks in 1969 selected Abdul-Jabbar and had a title, their only one, by 1971. The Suns got Neal Walk."Hey," Kerr brightened at the time, trying to cheer up Colangelo, "maybe they'll talk Neal Walk."There was only one Johnny Kerr."Johnny was trying to make Rod feel better," recalled McIntyre. "But Rod's way south of morose. So Johnny says, 'The same thing happened to us in Phoenix. We polled the fans and they wanted to go one way. The fans won and we lost.' So Johnny says, ‘Rod, there's a moral to this story. That is if you listen to the fans too much you'll wind up sitting with them.'"The Bulls selected David Greenwood No. 2. The Knicks picked Bill Cartwright No. 3, but with Gilmore, the Bulls didn't need another center. Greenwood had a 12-year NBA career, six with the Bulls before being traded for George Gervin in 1985. Greenwood came off the bench for the Pistons 1990 champions.The Bulls would go on a nice run under Sloan, winning 45 games in 1980-81 and sweeping the Knicks in the playoffs before losing to the eventual champion Celtics."We got Ricky Sobers (for point guard) and with Theus we had a nice team," said Thorn. "Ricky and Reggie were  a heck of a backcourt and with Artis it looked like we were  ready to go."But it wouldn't be much of anywhere with coaching changes, personnel problems with players using drugs and a collapse in the 1983-84 season. Bulls managing partner Jerry Reinsdorf likes to tell the story of his baseball owning colleague George Steinbrenner approaching him one day in 1984 about getting rid of this albatross of a franchise that was losing games and money and embarrassing the so called "Magnificent Seven" of owners of Steinbrenner, Lester Crown, Lamar Hunt, Jonathan Kovler, Arthur Wirtz, Walter Shorenstein and Phil Klutznick. They'd drafted Jordan, but they had top 10 draft picks for years and still embarrassment. So Reinsdorf cobbled together a group of investors to take the Bulls—perhaps some symmetry with the Chicago White Sox—and Jordan off their hands. Before the end of the 1984-85 season with the Reinsdorf group assuming control, Reinsdorf fired Thorn and replaced him with a baseball scout, Jerry Krause.Thorn went on to a prominent role with the NBA and then resurrecting the Nets to a pair of Finals appearances after trading for Jason Kidd."I'm very humbled, very proud (to be going into the Hall of Fame)," Thorn acknowledged. "I feel great about it and particularly for me getting in the same time as Jason Kidd, who had a lot to do with me getting in. And Rick Welts, who I worked with in the NBA office and is a good friend. So I feel great about it."And the Bulls ending up doing OK, as well."All's well," agreed Thorn, "that ends well."The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

Zach LaVine needs to get healthier; Lauri Markannen needs to get stronger; Kris Dunn needs to get better.OK, it’s pretty clear the Bulls are not playing for the NBA title this season.But with the introduction Tuesday of the three new players acquired in the landscape altering trade of All-Star Jimmy Butler last week, at least there’s certainty again where the Bulls are going.Up, and it’s a long way to go, but at least they finally can begin to see through the haze.“We've changed our direction,” reiterated Bulls executive vice president John Paxson. “We're not satisfied with being middle of the pack. If you're thinking about (the draft day trade) in terms of winning and losing, it's the wrong way to look at it. We defined a direction. Jimmy Butler's an All-Star player, so Minnesota got a great player in this deal. We've made the playoffs nine out of 10 years; wasn't good enough. We have to now reset what we're about. As you're going to see, when teams do rebuild, it takes time.  Fred (Hoiberg) and his staff have done a tremendous job already this summer. They just keep demanding that these guys play the right way, work hard every day. (Fans will) see a product out there that I think they can be proud of and see hope. There will be painful times. There always are. But I think when you're all unified and that's the direction you're going, you have a chance. Our fans, if they give us time and are patient, we'll show results.”You half expected everyone to have those “First Day of the Rest of Your Life” coffee mugs Tuesday morning in the Advocate center when Paxson, Hoiberg, general manager Gar Forman, Markkanen, Dunn and LaVine—with family, friends and agents in the audience—lined up across a long table to be introduced to Chicago.LaVine’s agent is Bill Duffy, who also represents Rajon Rondo. Paxson said the Bulls and Duffy would be meeting Tuesday afternoon regarding Rondo’s future with the franchise. Duffy indicated Rondo had no issue being a player/mentor. The Bulls have a team option on Rondo’s salary of $14 million for next season. There is a buyout of about $3 million. Michael Carter-Williams will be a free agent and not return.“That’s still to be determined,” Paxson said about Rondo’s return. “As far as Rajon, we told you how highly we think of him. We’re going to sit down with Bill and talk it through. We do understand that veterans are important for a young basketball team, the right veterans, guys that are good teammates, are supportive of the young guys and can continue to teach them how to be pros. Those are things we’ll be addressing.”The indications are there will be one alpha remaining.That’s Dwyane Wade, who opted in last week to his salary of $23.8 million for next season.Obviously, Wade no longer fits with the Bulls direction.Last year, the Bulls, in a lot of ways to further accommodate Butler, gave it one more try figuring the Marquette products could fit together and with Rondo and Robin Lopez still give the Bulls a strong presence in the Eastern Conference. Obviously, that didn’t work with the Bulls barely making it into the playoffs on the last day in a  weak Eastern Conference and then losing in the first round, being swept four straight after Rondo went out injured.Butler and Wade never could mesh.Now Wade remains. But for how long? There were leaks last week about perhaps a buyout of Wade, though Paxson said there have been no such talks with Wade’s representatives (Wade remains in Europe on vacation).“I know Gar has spoken with Leon Rose, Dwyane’s agent,” said Paxson. “As far as the buyout, that has not been broached. I would say this: In this type of scenario, it would have to benefit us. Dwyane was a great pro last year, and he’s been around a lot of different situations. He was in Miami when they had a couple rebuilding years as well. So right now we’re operating under assumption that he’ll be here. But like I said, if that subject is ever broached by them, it would have to be advantageous for us.”The indications are Wade intends to collect his salary—he told TNT he has 24 million reasons to remain with the Bulls—and the Bulls didn’t seem to indicate any reason to pay off Wade.Plus, with LaVine out perhaps until midseason after ACL surgery in February, there figures to be playing time for a shooting guard. Wade took time off last season on backs to backs, rested almost always in practice and often skipped trips when he wasn’t playing. The belief then was to rest Wade so he would be healthiest for the playoffs.No one mentioned the P word Tuesday; at least not in connection with a year soon to come.So it’s not as if the Bulls need Wade to rest for anything. Whether Wade chooses to and what use the Bulls will have for him while trying to feature their young players remains on ongoing question into this season. Neither side indicated they have an answer, direction or solution yet.But this day was about the kids, and Paxson, Forman and Hoiberg were beaming like proud parents.“Last night when we sat down with these three young men, they are quality people and they're really good basketball players. We have an opportunity to let them grow with our head coach and with this coaching staff. The summer so far, before we even made the trade, our young guys have been terrific. I'm excited about what the environment's going to be like in this building heading forward. We're thrilled to have them."Though there are reasons the Bulls were able to get them.If LaVine weren’t injured, there’s no chance he would have been included in the trade the way he was breaking out as dunk champion and highlight video star.Minnesota coach/president Tom Thibodeau is anxious to contend for the playoffs in his second season. And he should be for a franchise that last made the playoffs in 2004. Last year at the draft, the Bulls engaged the Timberwolves in trade talks because the Bulls were high on Dunn.It would not have been much more than Butler for the pick to select Dunn. So the Bulls balked.LaVine became available because of his injury and even as Minnesota looks for a point guard to replace Ricky Rubio, Dunn became available because of a poor rookie season, though he didn’t play regularly. The Bulls got the Timberwolves’ lottery pick in exchange for their own at No. 16. But the three players the Bulls targeted all were taken before No. 16. So it became easier to also surrender their pick.Thibodeau, unable to move up to get Kansas’ Josh Jackson, also didn’t feel the No. 7 pick, which he intended to use on Markannen, could help this season. So the package of three players became available at a time the Bulls, surprisingly, were not being offered lottery picks or even high level starters for Butler.Boston declined to offer a lottery pick this year or next. Same with Phoenix. The Nuggets had just No. 13 this year, but would not offer even their top young player, Jamal Murray. Though Butler is an accomplished player, it’s often a matter of fit as well for contending teams.None of the three players the Bulls received from the Timberwolves, Thibodeau rightly calculated, were going to make much difference for him this season. Certainly not compared to Butler.The Bulls a year removed from effectively breaking up their team in losing Rose, Pau Gasol and Joakim Noah, discovered Wade and Rondo were not enough to elevate the team with Butler. The Bulls’ difference had to come with growth, and so it begins.LaVine was ambiguous about when he might return, mentioning the typical nine to 12-month average recovery from ACL surgery. Rose was condemned in Chicago when he didn’t return nine months after the surgery. Perhaps the community realized its mistake. No one seemed to be angry LaVine said he’ll make sure he is fully ready before returning. Though reports are his tear was not nearly as severe as was Rose’s.“I’m feeling really good,” said LaVine. “I’m attacking this injury like I do everything in life, working my butt off for it every day, in the gym and doing as much as possible. There’s always that base timeline of nine to 12 months with it. I feel like with my ability I’m able to come back early. But I really haven’t set a timetable for that. I’m very confident that I’ll come back better. This has given me time to work on my mental game, my strength and learn the game more. I have no fear at all coming back from this.“I’m just here trying to do the best I can,” LaVine added. “I’m humble and very happy to come to a great franchise like this. Not everybody gets this opportunity. Growing up, I was a Space Jam fan. I know everything about Michael Jordan. I was talking to Pax, who knew him since before I was born. It’s a great opportunity and humbling and satisfying to be here in these colors and this city. I’m going to be safe (about recovery). That’s the main thing, always being safe. I always have to take care of myself and this franchise, as well. I’m going to do everything I can physically to get back. I’m the type of person that’s going to work my butt off to get there as fast as possible. I’m going to be ready when I am there.”The relief and enthusiasm was like a sign on Hoiberg’s face.For the first time as Bulls coach, he gets to coach a team aligned to his philosophy of the game: Speed, unselfish play, youth and aggression. Hoiberg has worked in Timberwolves management and still is close with the organization. He said Minnesota staff was effusive about LaVine.“Zach is a guy that not many people have, the athletic skill set with his ability to get up and down the floor and shoot it from anywhere and then fit in with the guys we had in Denzel, Paul, Jerian, Cris and Bobby as well as some of the other veterans we have coming back,” Hoiberg said. “You look at last year, there were only five teams that played five players in their first and second year. The other four were Phoenix, Philadelphia. New York and Miami. We developed our young guys and made the playoffs and that was our goal last year, which we did accomplish. I know a lot of people in the Timberwolves organization from my time there. And the way that people just rave about his work ethic, about his daily approach, about the time he's spent in the gym, about how he's tackled this injury on a daily basis to get himself back on the court as soon as possible, it's unbelievable. He's got a high ceiling. Because of how athletic he is and the way he shoots the ball, he's still got a lot of room to grow. It's exciting when you have a guy who can get out and make highlight level plays above the rim and also shoot the ball five feet behind the three-point line. It's very exciting right now with this young group.”Dunn after being the high riser at point guard in last year’s draft averaged just 3.8 points and shot 37.7 percent last season. Though there’s perhaps nothing more difficult than being a rookie point guard for the demanding Thibodeau, and with a team in which the offense was directed through LaVine, Andrew Wiggins and Karl-Anthony Towns. So Dunn was shaken, and he knew it. So he is reveling in the chance to reset as well.“I’ve had a lot of ups and downs in my personal life. The reason I got here was because I never gave up. I have a great family who’s here today. I have great friends, and they always push me, no matter what. My personal mentality it to never give up. I accept that I had a bad year. But I’m always in the gym right now. Every day, I’m trying to get in the gym, so I don’t have to have a bad year."“My rookie season, there were a lot of ups and downs, basically like a roller coaster ride,” Dunn said. “Playing under Tom, he helped me become a professional. He loves players that love to work. Tom really helped me be a pro. What I can bring to the Bulls is my tenacity on defense. I really take pride in my defense. I’m going to try to bring that over here and just interact with my new teammates. Get to know a lot of guys, their personalities. Come out here and try to prove every day. Just by being in the gym every day and showing my team that I’m committed to work hard and learn the game and buy into the system. That’s the biggest thing. To be able to do what you want to do, you have to build each and everybody’s trust. I think I’ll come in and be myself, let my personality show and show guys I’m willing to work with them.”Similarly with Markkanen, who probably is the least ready to play of the three.He just turned 20 last month and has been in the United States one year after playing at the U. of Arizona.“Getting to watch Lauri these last couple days on film with his ability to stretch the floor and play both frontline positions is where this league is going,” said Hoiberg. “His ability to shoot, playmake and put the ball on the ground, he’s a sneaky athlete.”So I had to ask about the big matzo ball hanging out there. Or with him being Finnish, a big kalakukko hanging out there. I’m sure it’s got something to do with herring.You know: Seven foot white guy. White men can’t jump. Or can they? And are they tough enough?He didn’t exactly stare me down, but I did detect an eye roll. Yeah, buddy, just wait!“I know that stereotype is there, but I don’t include myself in that. I’m not soft,” Markkanen said. “I play hard. I see why everybody thinks it’s (going away) slowly, from players just coming from overseas and changing that.”Which is true. You wouldn’t want to run into any Jokics or Steven Adams these days.And this kid can really shoot. Really, really shoot. It gives the Bulls the ability to play a stretch center that would make Artis Gilmore flinch. Though Markkanen says for now it’s stretch four.“I can play multiple positions,” he said. “That’s one of my strengths. Point guard is what I used to do at home. I started as a guard and last season played as a five. So I’m really comfortable doing both, defensively and offensively. I know the game is changing. It’s what I’ve been doing my whole life; glad it’s going that way so I can fit.”He admits he keeps hearing the Dirk Nowitzki comparison. “We have similarities,” he admitted. “Being tall, being able to shoot the ball. Put the ball on the floor.”Markkanen wasn’t promising the results. No one can.Though my one concern was he said he asked Brian Scalabrine about wearing his No. 24. My surprise wasn’t so much he didn’t mention Bill Cartwright winning three titles wearing that number or Reggie Theus making two All-Star teams. I never knew the Bulls actually gave Scalabrine a number.LaVine took No. 8. It was Robin Lopez' number. LaVine had called and asked if he could buy it from him. Lopez told him to have it and enjoy. Stanford guys know of a lot of other numbers.“(I had a) hoop in my back yard, hours put in shooting, fell in love with it. I take pride in doing the work. I know there’s work to do, like always. I’m the type of person who’s going to be in the gym, and I’m going to work on that. I know I’m going to get better when I put the work in. I’m pretty confident that it’s going to happen."The Bulls can only hope.“Obviously, Kris and Lauri have huge upside in terms of development,” said Paxson. “Zach's still a young guy. He's not even reached his prime yet. That's what's exciting. They're all really talented, they all have the work ethic that we want to see, and their prime is well in front of them. They have the opportunity to grow as basketball players and grow within the organization. That remains the most exciting part about this. That's where we're going to define what we're going to be as an organization.”Dunn, Markkanen and Denzel Valentine likely will play for the Bulls’ summer league team starting games July 8 in Las Vegas. Cameron Payne and Paul Zipser likely will play in some games. Hey, back to back summer league championships? Got to start somewhere. “I appreciate my time in Minnesota with those guys; those were my best friends,” said LaVine. “It taught me a lot, especially growing up as a 19-year-old and all the way to now, I'm only 22. I'm ready for it. I'm very humble. When it's time for me to get going, I'm going to come in here and work my butt off like I always do, going in with full confidence. I'm just extremely excited to get this ball rolling and see what we can do.”It’s time.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
The Chicago Bulls announced today that guard Denzel Valentine has been diagnosed with ongoing ankle instability. After being evaluated by Dr. Bob Anderson, a foot and ankle specialist in Green Bay, Wisconsin, Valentine will undergo a surgical reconstruction by Dr. Anderson the week of Nov. 26 with an anticipated recovery time of four-to-six months. He is expected to make a full recovery and have a normal summer of offseason training leading into training camp for the 2019-20 season.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
The Bulls Tuesday lost their second straight in the NBA Summer League, 101-93 to the Atlanta Hawks and 24 points with seven three pointers from Trae Young. But the Bulls are smiling because they appear to have a big winner.It’s rookie Wendell Carter Jr. with yet another excellent effort, 23 points on nine of 13 shooting with six rebounds and another two blocks to lead all league players in total blocks. Carter made his only three-point attempt and was poised, physical and productive from the start as the Bulls built up at early 19-point lead.They would be shot out of the game by 14 Atlanta threes led by Young, though the Bulls can feel awfully good despite an awful second half watching Carter play like a savvy veteran who even at 19 years old is showing the stuff of legends.“His defensive instincts for a 19-year-old kid are off the charts,” marveled Bulls coach Fred Hoiberg, who is a spectator with assistant Randy Brown coaching. “So many kids want to get on SportsCenter throwing the ball into the third row. He keeps his blocks in play, which fuels your fast break. That’s a great skill. He’s mastered at a young age the art of verticality.”Anyone say Bill Russell and Hakeem?Perhaps that is a bit of an overstatement since the Hall of Fame doesn’t have Carter’s bust completed yet. But here’s a kid who is not going to be a bust and whom the team can envision in a tandem with Lauri Markkanen for years.Summer League now moves to a single elimination playoff format the rest of the week. Though early losers also will play a consolation game to get a minimum of five games. The Bulls play Dallas Wednesday 5:30 p.m. CT on NBA-TV.Antonio Blakeney Tuesday also had 23 points and added five assists as he looked to move the ball more against pressure. Undrafted Kaiser Gates from Xavier was the only other Bulls player in double figures with 14 points with four of six threes. Fellow first round pick Chandler Hutchison led the team with eight assists after having eight rebounds in the Game 2 loss. But he again was passive offensively and had five turnovers. Ryan Arcidiacono was again feisty and had a little elbowing with Young while fifth starter Donte Ingram was mostly quiet again.Not so with Carter, except in his post game interviews.Carter is personable and cooperative, though a bit guarded, occasionally offering a sly smile.It's no good if I play well and we lose. I don't like to look at my own stats. I may have had a good game, but we lost. It's going to be a constant effort for me. I gotta get better. There are some times where I could've done a better job of staying in front (of Young on switches). Our scouting report was to get him off the three-point line. I tried to do that each time, but still stay in front. A couple times he got by me. It's something I'm going to work on. As soon as this Summer League is over, I'm going to get my feet quicker to stay in front of these guards.- Wendell Carter Jr.“I just use whatever I am good at,” the 6-10 Carter said when asked about averaging almost four blocks per game with yet another helping effort. “Shot blocking is something I am really good at. I try to make that a strength and force them into shots I know I can block.”And in walking into a three late, Carter said that, too, can be an option.“That can be a focal point (for me),” he said. “I took that shot numerous times at Duke. It's just something I'm very comfortable with. If my team asks that of me, I think I'll be a great three-point shooter. It feels pretty natural.”The Bulls looked natural to start with a 33-18 lead after one quarter. They opened the game with a sharp play featuring Carter in the middle running offense with Hutchison sliding in. Carter added a pair of three-point plays blowing through contact and scoring, which has troubled Hutchison. Hutchison did make a pair of threes, but again in the half court was uncertain and began to look to pass instead of shoot. He’s an excellent passer on the move, but obviously was reminded by the coaching staff to be more aggressive offensively.“A couple of points I passed up shots I have to shoot,” Hutchison acknowledged. “They trusted me to stay aggressive. For me, it’s finding a balance, being aggressive when my opportunity comes. (I have been) struggling to finish at the rim when that is a big part of my game. I have to adjust, continue to be aggressive. I’m always extremely hard on myself. I have to do better. Defensively with my length height and athleticism, I’ve got to be relied upon to be a defensive stopper and rebound the ball; those two things no matter what happens on the other end every night can be valuable. So I have to be able to do that and help the team in every area I can.”Even though Hutchison was a four-year player, he’s obviously going to come on more slowly and more like a typical rookie.“The three days in Chicago (minicamp) Chandler was as impressive as anyone we had,” said Hoiberg. "A lot of that was he was getting the ball off the glass, going coast to coast and finishing at a high level. He’s got to be tougher mentally and physically to fight through these tough stretches; Chandler will be fine. It’s all a learning experience. I thought he had a huge impact even if he’s not scoring because he covers so much ground.”Which makes the play of Carter that more special.Blakeney rebounded from his tough shooting Game 2 and made some uncanny shots when plays broke down, though Blakeney needed 21 shots for his 23 points to 13 for Carter. Blakeney had to take them as the Bulls aren’t loaded with offensive options on this Summer League team with Hutchison not often looking to score. Loyola’s Ingram seems to have struggled with the speed of the play while Arcidiacono also is a reluctant shooter.The Hawks took advantage, taking the lead early in the second half and then pulling away for the rest of the game. Though Carter continued to be a reason for Bulls partisans not to look away. And continue shaking their heads. Can he really be that good?The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.Remember March Madness, the NCAA tournament. Yes, it was pretty exciting the way it finished with that last shot by Villanova. What’s more difficult to remember is the elite star from those games who is about to step into the NBA. Heck, there may not even have been a future NBA starter on the all-tournament team.Yes, welcome to the 2016 NBA draft, which will be conducted Thursday in New York City. You’re taking whom?Sure, there are some players with intriguing talent. And there always are a few players who emerge as surprise exceptions in the NBA because the college game, for the most part, is too coach controlled and often badly. So some players excel in the pros despite doing less in college.But looking at this draft class, headed by a player who could not even get his team into the 68-team tournament, it’s difficult to find the stars of tomorrow.LSU’s Ben Simmons is expected to be the No. 1 selection, though he apparently has declined to work out for anyone as he may be asking the Hall of Fame to waive its five-year waiting period for enshrinement. Duke’s Brandon Ingram is the rest of the 1-2 entry, though mostly you hear it will take some time as he’s about 15 years old.Buddy Hield can shoot, but is not too big and not too good with the dribble. Kris Dunn can run a team, but what about his shot? Jamal Murray can shoot, but can he run a team? Questions, questions, questions.With Simmons and Ingram expected to be the first two picks, it’s yet another so called wing draft with the top players mostly small forwards, though some who don’t shoot that well and others who don’t dribble or pass. There’s then the overload of smallish power forwards, which was the label hung on Draymond Green. This draft is probably weakest at point guard with three, perhaps four point guards who figure to go in the first round. But there are a few Isaiah Thomas types. He went 60th and became an All-Star.It doesn’t look like one of those drafts everyone will look back on as changing the league, like 1984, 1992 and 2003. But there is some talent there; it’s just about finding it.Here’s a look at this draft by position:It’s the weakest position in this draft, though some see Dunn and Murray as special pros.He may be more suited to shooting guard, but then it might be tough to even get to five point guards if I leave him out. A better shooter but probably could play point in this scoring point guard era.Considered the closest to pro pure point guard with scoring guard abilities. Though he’s had some shoulder injury issues.A junior, which makes him a wily veteran in these drafts. Has good all around abilities. Smallish, but not among the smallest and with that toughness teams like.He was likened to Spencer Dinwiddie on one of key internet draft sites. The Bulls just picked up Dinwiddie for Cameron Bairstow, who rarely played. That doesn’t sound like first round material.Every pro guy says they are impressed with him and then add the dreaded but of being small, no really, really small. But the Chicago kid can really, really run a team and is really, really a great competitor. So he won’t be an All-Star. Well, they said that about Isaiah, too.There’s no next Ray Allen here. Or Klay Thompson. Actually, not a great position for this draft, either. Help! There are some good shooters, but not so much the take your breath away types. Thompson went 11th in 2011 right after Jimmer Fredette.Looked like the best shooter in college. Another Ben Gordon type?  Remember, Ben could really shoot it and didn’t do much else, which some say is the question with Hield.Sort of began to run out of names after Hield. Some can handle and pass, some shoot, but just decently, like Richardson. He’s the right size and can make plays, but he can be streaky.More of a classic shooter, but thin and young players coming from overseas generally need more time to fit in and find a spot.A lot of good stuff about him, but, well, he doesn’t shoot all that great for a shooting guard. At least yet. Has that Jamal Crawford handle and elusiveness to get to the basket. Which is something.The right size and speed and regarded for his defense and hustle, but why do they have to have shooting in the position name? He needs some improvement there, but has a decent stroke.The position of the draft with Simmons and Ingram. Though Simmons has that unique talent in handling the ball and passing, his shooting is considered questionable. Would you pass on him, regarded publicly as the top talent, for a developing Ingram with more skills? Tune in Thursday.You hate to make the Royce White comparison because of all the other issues, but he is similar with that size and the ability to run a team like a guard. But do you turn your team over to a freshman? And in this NBA you better be able to shoot. He hasn’t shown much of that yet. Ladies and gentlemen, your No. 1 pick?Athletic, skilled with fluid movements, and then he disappeared at times in the tournament with a lack of strength. You have to be patient, and fans don’t want to be with No. 1 or 2 picks.Some see him as a shooting guard, though, again, some shooting inconsistencies. More a wing player and strong finisher, though opinions differ among scouts of his effectiveness for the NBA.Pros like those rising ceilings in the draft, and his won’t be as he will be more what you see now. Which is pretty good; not an athlete, but a shot maker, clever and skilled who can step in with an NBA team more quickly.More a defensive player with open court abilities who’ll need to improve his shooting. But not by that much and if he does his energy becomes a big plus.The next most talent in this draft with a varied group and perhaps the most depth of any of the positions for this draftThere’s always a guy who rockets up the draft boards, and he’s been this year’s. He’s drawn the athletic comparisons to Amar’e Stoudemore before the apostrophe and Tyrus Thomas before the acting out. Has that vaulted ceiling the pros love in their new acquisitions.Everyone will want to make him another Porzingis, but he’s more skilled with the ball like a Toni Kukoc type. But, again, teams don’t turn the ball over to guys like this too quickly and he could have to learn to be a corner three-point shooter.Not particularly athletic, though the Brian Scalabrine comparison on some draft boards was a low blow. Good handle with the ball and can make plays and shots with enough mobility and size to help a team.One of those raw athlete types who need development. Needs to put on weight and get experience, but has that sky high ceiling.Might be the advertisement for players actually playing at the predraft camp. Wasn’t much considered a first round pick until his energy and enthusiasm was electric. Others like Deyonta Davis and Brice Johnson have been generally regarded higher, but Diallo made an impression in Chicago.This could be a good area for the Bulls as there are several promising big men, if not many who look like dominating starters. But in a small man’s basketball world these days there are several guys who will play in the NBA for awhile.He’ll run the floor and shows good coordination, if not an overwhelming offensive game. But there are more inside big men in this draft than usual. Especially as so many of the big kids want to become shooters these days.The son of the great Hall of Fame center doesn’t have his dad’s uncanny skills. But he’s a worker with inside scoring potential.More the so called old school guy with the inside game. A bit small but with a big wingspan. More below the rim, but with a physical presence.Sort of the mystery big man of the draft. He showed impressively at some camps and then NBA scouts lost track of him as he dropped in and out all over the globe. Has good skills and size, but essentially a high schooler.Recently had surgery for a torn pectoral, but it’s not considered a problem for starting next season. Nice touch and a worker with good size, but doesn’t produce as much as it seems he should. Croatian Ivica Zubac and Stephen Zimmerman from UNLV will get looks.

This morning, Dwyane Wade underwent an MRI for a right elbow injury suffered in the fourth quarter of last night’s game vs. the Memphis Grizzlies. The results of the MRI showed a sprain and a small fracture in the elbow. Wade will be out the remainder of the regular season.




Question: How was Derrick’s surgery and why did he choose this option which will keep him out the entire 2013-14 NBA season?Forman: This was the best procedure for Derrick’s long-term health. That is our primary concern. Whatever is best for Derrick in the long term as a 25-year-old athlete was our first thought. And what’s best for Derrick is best for the franchise. He’s still young, has a very long career ahead of him and there’s no reason after talking to the surgeons Derrick will not return 100 percent. This particular option gave him the best chance for long-term success.Question: Couldn’t they have gone with the short-term option to bring him back sooner?Forman: We are never going to be shortsighted when it comes to a player and his health. The decision had been made to repair it if possible. Once the surgeons saw how good the tissue looked, they stayed with that option. To do otherwise could have made the knee less stable and increase the risks down the road as we’ve seen with other NBA players. Given the circumstances, the procedure and outcome was as good as could be expected.Question: Last year you never said when Derrick would return and there were updates that suggested it would be before the end of the season. And that was a more serious injury. Why now is he out for the entire season?Forman: Last year we really didn’t know and Derrick didn’t, either. Remember, Jerry Reinsdorf always said last year we were going to be conservative and that Derrick would not be coming back until he was 100 percent ready. This time it’s clear that he won’t be able to return.Question: What’s the rehab for this procedure?Forman: Doctors are telling us it’s a six-month process as we’ve seen with many players. Every person and every injury is different, but Derrick should be able to get back to full health and restart his career at the highest possible level.Question: How is Derrick doing with all this? He must be devastated to go through surgery again so soon.Forman: Obviously, our first thoughts were with Derrick and his family. When it happened, obviously, he was very, very down. But he’s an amazingly resilient and positive person. I don’t want to speak for him, but he seems to be doing well. He really is a remarkable young man.Question: How have his teammates and those around Derrick dealt with this?Forman: It’s obviously tough for our players. We understand. This is their teammate and friend. They’re the guys in the trenches with him. They basically live together much of the year and if you see the camaraderie with this group, you know they feel about one another. They saw how much work he put into his comeback and how much he worried about them and wanted to be around them so much last season even though he couldn’t play, and then to see this happen to him again. It’s hard for every one of them. But we believe in the makeup and character of this team.Question: What about this team? Where do you go from here knowing you probably can no longer win a championship this season without Derrick.Forman: Look, I think Tom [Thibodeau] said it well Sunday. The core of this team has been through this before. And they’ve had a level of success pulling together. That’s what they’ve shown they’re about. It’s obviously tough for them, but that’s why we have so much faith in this team, because of the way these players have responded to adversity and always played at a high level. So we feel they’re the kind of people and players who will pull together again.Question: But do they have enough to still be competitive?Forman: There’s still a lot of talent on this team. There’s two guys who were All-Stars a year ago in Joakim Noah and Luol Deng, Carlos Boozer, is a high level player who was among the leaders in double-doubles in the league last season, Jimmy Butler when he comes back and we saw last season what he can do, Taj [Gibson], who has had a very good start. There’s Kirk [Hinrich], whose proven to be one of the top defensive guards in the league, Mike Dunleavy, one of the best three-point shooters in basketball. And this will give Marquis Teague and Tony Snell an opportunity grow.Question: But given you probably cannot win a title this season, why not make changes for the future?Forman: It’s obviously too soon to go down that road. Derrick had surgery this morning. Look, we are always evaluating our team, just like everyone else does. We felt good about this season, but we were hardly perfect. So we always are looking to get better. Everything we do is geared toward winning a championship and we will continue to evaluate any moves that will help us in attaining that goal.Question: Why didn’t you at least keep Marco Belinelli and Nate Robinson?Forman: In the summer of 2012, we were putting together a team to play without Derrick Rose. Though there was a possibility he could return, we approached that off season as though he may not. So we added players who would fill in for Derrick as no one can replace a Derrick Rose. But this season we expected to have Derrick. And we had Kirk Hinrich moving to a backup guard position and you’ve been able to see how well that was working with Kirk behind Derrick. Then we added Mike Dunleavy because his stretch the floor shooting fit the best with Derrick, and you can see what we saw in Mike and how well he shoots the ball from three-point range.Question: OK, now you know Derrick is gone for this season. Why not trade some of your players for future possibilities, young players or draft picks and begin rebuilding?Forman: It’s still too early in the process and we’re not going to make any rash decisions. We feel there is a bright future ahead and we believe we are positioned well. Look, we fully expect Derrick to come back 100 percent for next season. This basically was a freak injury. This was not due to the ACL or some fatigue of other factor. We have a young nucleus of veterans basically in their 20’s; we have multiple draft picks, including a pick from Charlotte in one of the next three drafts; we have the rights to Nikola Mirotic, who has been the best young payer in Europe the last two years. I know people get tired of hearing it sometimes, but we also have the possibility of flexibility in free agency this summer or next. So we feel we are in a good position, and we will be getting Derrick back. Question: But can you trust Rose now after these injuries?Forman: We see no reason not to. That’s what the best doctors in the world tell us. His left knee is strong, as everyone has seen, and his right knee will be strong as any doctor will tell you after this surgery. We’ve seen with many current All-Stars go through the same procedure.Question: But why not trade some of your free agents if you might lose them?Forman: Again, we evaluate everything constantly in the goal of becoming a championship team. I don’t want to get into discussing any particular players since we feel we have a strong group that is going to have a good season. But like any organization, it’s an ongoing process of evaluation to do what’s best for the franchise.
Obviously, we're going out there to win. That's what we do. That's the only way you can get better and that's how you compete; that's how you progress as a team. As players, we're going out there to win and compete every game. I'm not putting expectations
    on this season. Obviously we want to make the playoffs, we want to compete for championships. So that's what we're going to start with, starting tomorrow. Build those championship habits. - Zach LaVineThe NBA season often is likened more to a marathon than a sprint, but it's still a race. The Bulls Monday opened their 2018-19 season—the second day of the next part of their lives in the second season of their rebuild—with their own race.It's the one to find a star.No one actually mentioned it that way, and Bulls executives were anxious to maintain limited expectations."I said earlier this summer after we went to the draft and through free agency that we were pleased in terms of where we are in the rebuild," said Bulls Executive Vice President of Basketball Operations John Paxson. "With that said, we
  also understand that we have a lot of work to do. There is an excitement with the group. (But) you're not going to hear us talk about wins or anything like that; the expectations for us are to see this team come together. Our goal is to be the best
  basketball team we can be, and that's through this group coming together. We have talent, I believe that, and how it comes together, how we play, will determine what kind of win total we end up with, but we're not going to focus on that.'The players generally tried to offer the right balance between competitive nature and company narrative."I think expectations for us is just going to be taking it day by day and being competitive," said Zach LaVine. "I think we'll be fine because we're going to be so excited. We're really hungry. We hear the outside expectations (about another
  27-win season). But I think we use that as fuel. We're going to get off to a hot start with training camp coming. We've all been here and it's going to be fun. That's why I think we're all able to get a jump on the season because we're all healthy now.
  Obviously, we're going out there to win. That's what we do. That's the only way you can get better and that's how you compete; that's how you progress as a team. As players, we're going out there to win and compete every game. I'm not putting expectations
  on this season. Obviously we want to make the playoffs, we want to compete for championships. So that's what we're going to start with, starting tomorrow. Build those championship habits.""Hopefully," added Lauri Markkanen with a smile, "get more wins than 27 like last year."Betting the over, which probably is OK now that the NBA has an official betting partner in Las Vegas, sounds right for the Bulls.This is no 27-win team.Hey, no 22-win team jokes.It's a team that could/might/should compete for a playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. It's not a promise, though also not an unreasonable expectation."We're going to have to have a lot of sacrifice with this team because of the talent and the many weapons that we're going to have. It may be a different guy every night. And that will have to be accepted. We want growth. We want to continue to
    get better. If you get guys to compete and buy in, you're going to have a chance every night." - Coach Fred HoibergConsider that a year ago with the preseason starting, Kris Dunn was behind Jerian Grant on the depth chart, LaVine was three months away from playing 18 minutes, Jabari Parker was in Milwaukee trying to return from a second ACL surgery, Markkanen was
  being eased into the season after playing much of the summer for native Finland and Wendell Carter Jr. was wondering where the heck Marvin Bagley Jr. came from and where his shots were going.That's probably the finishing five with veteran Robin Lopez likely the starting center based on seniority more than his new goatee. But it's also a group of five, young, talented lottery picks, most of whom have had uncertain NBA debuts. Which also is
  why most are in Chicago. The second time around often works as well.But it's also a race for these five potential thoroughbreds to becoming a star or stars.Rebuilding with young players isn't guaranteed. The Bulls will probably be the youngest team in the NBA. That's not necessarily a great thing, at least for the coming season. Raw fruit isn't that appealing; nor really is steak tartare. There aren't many
  rookies in the Finals. So you need to grow and grow together. But a team, you also need a star before the growth matters much.Perhaps the most intriguing element of this Bulls season is that they have five players who could become stars based on their talent and draft status. Most of the NBA believed all were potential stars at some point given their draft lottery placement.
  But all won't be or can't be. The hope of the team is someone—or three—are. Partly because most successful teams develop or acquire a star and fit a team around that talent.Of course, everyone will say it's great to have multiple top players who can all take and make those last shots and the big plays; though the fact is a team needs that mega talent or two not so much for that last shot, but so that everyone else can get
  their shots and find their place. Make the defense watch someone else and it opens things for everyone else."Great teams seem to have a pecking order," agreed Paxson. "In terms of our leadership, that's something that will play itself out. We didn't have this group play together very much last year. It's a young group. They do have some experience
  in the league now, which is a good thing. I know we're going to try to play quickly, throw the ball ahead a lot, movement."Which is the responsibility of coach Fred Hoiberg to enforce."There aren't a ton of teams in the league who have only one guy that take the last shot," Hoiberg noted. "We had multiple occasions when we were going through our really good stretch last year where Lauri would take the last shot. Or Kris
  Dunn really developed into a closer in a lot of those wins that we had. Zach had a couple games where we put the ball in his hands late in games. Obviously, Jabari is capable of making a big play, especially at the three when you can put him on the
  block and you can take advantage of the mismatch. That will develop as we go along. We'll understand who has the makeup to be that guy that we put the ball in their hands late in games."But can they accept that? Will they?"We're going to have to have a lot of sacrifice with this team because of the talent and the many weapons that we're going to have," Hoiberg acknowledged. "It may be a different guy every night. And that will have to be accepted. We want
  growth. We want to continue to get better. If you get guys to compete and buy in, you're going to have a chance every night."Which is the play it out part that the coaches and management talked about.But it's also a race to develop that All-Star, which is the goal of every rebuilding team, and the Bulls get in the starting blocks with the first practice Tuesday.In lane one, Kris Dunn:"We have multiple playmakers, so I don't have to create all the plays for everyone. At the same time, I'm a point guard and whoever's got it rolling I have to make sure they get the ball. We have a bunch of scorers on the team, so make sure everyone
  gets their fair share. I have great chemistry with Lauri; Zach, he's easy to play with because he is a knock down shooter, Jabari he's an unselfish player, a slasher and Wendell is another unselfish player who doesn't need the ball or Rolo, who is another
  one. Now, I'm even more comfortable. I think I've built a foundation and put in the hard work last year to get that starting position and I put in that same work to keep my position. I'm just going to keep working hard, keep learning about the game
  and my teammates and go out there with a positive state of mind. I feel like I am the best defender we have; people say Wendell now, but I'm going to hold my ground and keep on competing. I worked on (shooting) all summer, just like any area of my game.
  Everybody has their flaw and you have to understand I just work hard. Fred Hoiberg does an unbelievable job with me with body position and making sure I have the right form and right mechanics and I'm not going to be scared to shoot, simple as that.
  They were freak injuries (last season). I can't do anything about it. I just go out and play hard; hopefully God understands I play so hard He won't allow me to get any more injuries this year."In lane two, Zach LaVine:"I think everybody's role is going to be different. It starts in training camp, but with mine I think it's going to be the same expectations as last year, come in, be a leader of the team, lead by example, show the hard work and be one of the go-to
  guys. There's going to be some dudes' nights here, some dudes' nights there, but obviously we all know our talents and we all know what we can do. We all can play defense, everybody in the NBA can play defense. We're some of the most athletic people
  in the game. It's just that determination and that learning curve. I know personally I've always been really good on the ball. I don't know if you guys can tell me that I'm not good on the ball. I've always had a problem off the weak side and stuff
  like that. That's the main thing you hammer and you try to focus. People are going to talk regardless. It's a story to talk about defense, bad this and bad that. I think we're always looking for the positives and showing how we can grow. We all know
  how explosive we can be on the other end. If we get that down, we're going to be scary. Last year, I was obviously coming off an ACL injury, about 60-70 percent. Now I think I'm back to 100. I lost a little bit of weight, I'm about 200 pounds. I think
  I was like 212 last year, but that's just not my playing weight. I feel a lot lighter, athletic, still strong and I'm ready to go at it."In lane three, Jabari Parker:"I'm just happy starting a new chapter, especially being home. It's just going to take time like anything else. Once we figure out each other and start to gel then we'll see the results. As far as the results go, then we'll know if we're jelling
  or not. It's easier now because [before] I was more centered on myself, my rehab. I was isolated a lot of times. But now it's been better building chemistry with the team. And I'll be able to implement myself a little bit faster rather than in the past
  where I couldn't play before with teammates. So it's been pretty good. I don't set expectations on myself. I just hope that I get better each and every day. Everybody wants to make the playoffs. Just doing the best we can. For me, it's more short term
  thinking in the future. I just want to focus on the steps rather than the finish line."In lane four, Lauri Markkanen:"I tried to stay in the weight room as much as I can. I think I've gained a little bit. I'm around 240 right now. I think it will help my game overall, driving down the lane I'm going to have more strength. I think I played at 223. So 17 pounds (more).
  Of course, posting up guys and when they're posting up me, I can be more aggressive. Overall, in every situation, I'm not going to back down as easily. And I might be able to back them down some. Last year I wasn't able to do that. I've been able to
  work on my body and be healthy, so I feel good. That's eventually my goal, to be an All Star. But I don't know when that is gong to happen. I definitely set that a goal for me on the personal side, but I am not worried about All Star break now."Added LaVine: "Lauri looks great. He got a little bit stronger, jumper still looks pretty as all get out. Still the funniest dude in the world. I just want him to build on what he did. He had such a great rookie year with the opportunity he had.
  The sky's the limit for him. He's one of those players that he can do a lot of big things. Lauri's off the charts."In lane five, Wendell Carter Jr. (eventually)"Going into training camp, I just want to improve myself each day, after each workout be able to look at myself and say I got better today; that's what I am going to focus on. I feel like I'm in a position now where I am on a great team and will
  do what I have to do to help the team win. It's not so much as sharing the wealth or sacrificing where I am not getting the amount of shots that I want; it's more so I'm on a great team with other great players and I'm excited to get on the court with
  them and win some games. First thing I realized is knocking down open shots; that's something that an NBA player needs to be able to do. Ever since I got here, that's something I worked on and even before I got here I was working on being a better jump
  shooter. I'm a competitor no matter if I'm coming off the bench, sixth man, starting, or getting three minutes in the game I feel like whenever I am in the game I'm going to compete and do whatever I have to do. I just like to win and will do everything
  in my power to do that."So who's your pick?"Obviously we all want those accolades," LaVine added. "All-NBA, All-Star, MVP, championships, stuff like that. But it doesn't start until you build those habits. None of us have really proven anything as a group and I think it all comes
  with winning. So I don't want to make it a me thing or anybody else. I think collectively, if we win and we're great together, it's going to build us all up and we're going to have those accolades. Because we're all good enough to have it. We all have
  that potential."The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

The Bulls, executive vice president John Paxson said Thursday night with the trade of Jimmy Butler, selected a direction. It likely will be down for a while. Though with the intention of rising higher. The rest awaits.“What we’ve done tonight is set a direction,” Paxson with general manager Gar Forman told reporters after the blockbuster trade to get the No. 7 draft pick, Kris Dunn and Zach LaVine. “We’ve gone to the past where we make the playoffs, but not at the level we wanted to. You know in this league, success is not determined that way. We’ve decided to make the change and rebuild this roster. We’re going to do it with young players we believe can play a system Fred (Hoiberg, coach) is comfortable with. And we’re going to be disciplined and patient as we make decisions along the way. I think one of the big things when you set a course like this is the decision making is clearly defined. We will continue now to make decisions based on the direction we’ve chosen tonight.“We are going to remain patient and disciplined,” Paxson insisted. “That’s the idea. The development of our young players is important and they’ve taken a huge step in this last month in being here and showing their commitment to getting better; the coaching staff has done a phenomenal job. They are committed to it. It’s been a really good environment around here and we are going to continue down that path. We have to be disciplined and patient. We are not going to right out the gate be throwing huge money at people. If there were a young player who we thought fit our future we would certainly look at that but that has to be the key.”And so a new era begins for the Bulls, an official rebuilding. No one had a euphemism this time. No one mentioned the Chicago Cubs, but that’s the idea. The Cubs took several years of fan and media abuse and now can’t get them out of the parade route. The Bulls were hardly promising anything of the sort. And it’s much more difficult in basketball, where fewer teams ever have chances at the championship.But what looked like a great run with Derrick Rose’s drafting in 2008 and effectively came to an end with his ACL tear in 2012--and then several meniscus tears—finally was stopped. It didn’t seem to have the legs anymore, nor the spirit or possibilities. It was nine years, and most of those considered among the top contenders in the Eastern Conference. Perhaps if they won once, or even got to a Finals. But when you come up short for that long, you eventually have to get the message. The Bulls did.And the only true value they had remaining was with Butler. It had to be his sacrifice to begin a new path.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

The Bulls, executive vice president John Paxson said Thursday night with the trade of Jimmy Butler, selected a direction. It likely will be down for a while. Though with the intention of rising higher. The rest awaits.“What we’ve done tonight is set a direction,” Paxson with general manager Gar Forman told reporters after the blockbuster trade to get the No. 7 draft pick, Kris Dunn and Zach LaVine. “We’ve gone to the past where we make the playoffs, but not at the level we wanted to. You know in this league, success is not determined that way. We’ve decided to make the change and rebuild this roster. We’re going to do it with young players we believe can play a system Fred (Hoiberg, coach) is comfortable with. And we’re going to be disciplined and patient as we make decisions along the way. I think one of the big things when you set a course like this is the decision making is clearly defined. We will continue now to make decisions based on the direction we’ve chosen tonight.“We are going to remain patient and disciplined,” Paxson insisted. “That’s the idea. The development of our young players is important and they’ve taken a huge step in this last month in being here and showing their commitment to getting better; the coaching staff has done a phenomenal job. They are committed to it. It’s been a really good environment around here and we are going to continue down that path. We have to be disciplined and patient. We are not going to right out the gate be throwing huge money at people. If there were a young player who we thought fit our future we would certainly look at that but that has to be the key.”And so a new era begins for the Bulls, an official rebuilding. No one had a euphemism this time. No one mentioned the Chicago Cubs, but that’s the idea. The Cubs took several years of fan and media abuse and now can’t get them out of the parade route. The Bulls were hardly promising anything of the sort. And it’s much more difficult in basketball, where fewer teams ever have chances at the championship.But what looked like a great run with Derrick Rose’s drafting in 2008 and effectively came to an end with his ACL tear in 2012--and then several meniscus tears—finally was stopped. It didn’t seem to have the legs anymore, nor the spirit or possibilities. It was nine years, and most of those considered among the top contenders in the Eastern Conference. Perhaps if they won once, or even got to a Finals. But when you come up short for that long, you eventually have to get the message. The Bulls did.And the only true value they had remaining was with Butler. It had to be his sacrifice to begin a new path.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.So this is it? This is what we’ve waited for some seven months? To see Miami and San Antonio back in the NBA Finals? Well, not yet, but it sure looks that way as the conference finals open Sunday with the Heat in Indianapolis and the Oklahoma City Thunder in San Antonio Monday. Well, why not? Give the Spurs one more chance to take that series they should have had last season. And see if coach Gregg Popovich takes out Tim Duncan again down the stretch to guard the perimeter. Or if Danny Green leaks out and lets LeBron get another three that he makes this time or they call Ray Allen for traveling or…Well, maybe it’s not a bad idea to see a replay of that one. Of course, they have to get there over the next two weeks. OK, anyone think the, well, let’s say confused, Pacers can win this one even with the home court advantage they talked about since being blown out in Game 7 last season in Miami? Sorry, I don’t see your hand up Indianapolis Mayor Ballard. And that friendly wager of 10 pounds of Miami stone crabs for some used snow from the downtown monuments isn’t showing that much confidence. It would be difficult to do so with the Pacers the way they have basically labored through the last two months of the regular season, were about out on their feet against the sub-.500 Hawks and were losing at home to the Wizards by almost 40 before eventually winning that series in six. But they said they’d be back and they are. So there! They did what they said they’d do, which is more than a lot of other teams can say. But you’ve never heard the terms “emotional wreck” and “mentally fragile” mentioned as many times around a conference finals team than you have in the last month about the Pacers. Perhaps it’s a strategy to get the Heat to relax and not take them seriously, which is one of the things Miami does at times. Hey, maybe they’re smarter than the rest of us. Well, Lance Stephenson, too. Nah, that can’t be. Suddenly, the three-peat doesn’t seem quite that difficult. In the Western Conference, the outlook changed dramatically Friday when Serge Ibaka was declared out for the rest of the playoffs with a calf injury. The Thunder looked like they’d knock out the Spurs last season until Russell Westbrook was knocked out for the playoffs before their series. After all, it was the Thunder who took out the Spurs in the 2012 conference finals by winning the last four straight. Then the Thunder swept the Spurs this season 4-0 and all that fundamental play wasn’t meaning much against those amazing athletes and scorers. We actually have some rivalries here as this is the third straight season of Indiana/Miami and second in three of San Antonio/Oklahoma City. But now the Thunder lose its best defender and rim protector and a nice third scoring option when Westbrook and Durant decide not to shoot. Granted, that’s not often, but Ibaka had a career high scoring average this season and Westbrook even found out who he was. It’s a major loss. After all, Ibaka is the guy they decided to pay and let James Harden go. More playing time for Kendrick Perkins? It would be a secret weapon, in a sense, as it could render the Spurs interior players vulnerable because they are laughing so hard. The Thunder got a strong game from rookie Steven Adams to close out the Clippers after Ibaka was hurt. But this is the veteran Spurs and Adams could be out of the game going after head fakes by the second quarter. Perhaps Nick Collison starts, which doesn’t do wonders for an incomplete bench already. The Spurs have some potential injury problems of their own as Tony Parker went out in their clinching win over Portland with a hamstring strain. The Spurs have said it’s not serious and they expect Parker to be fine for Game 1. But hamstrings are a tender--tendon?--issue and can reoccur when least expected. Losing Parker would be as serious for the Spurs as losing Ibaka is for the Thunder. Does LeBron deserve to be lucky, too? Indiana Pacers (1) vs. Miami Heat (2)2:30 p.m. Sunday ABCPacers defeated Atlanta Hawks in seven games and Washington Wizards in six gamesHeat defeated Charlotte Bobcats in four games and Brooklyn Nets in five gamesSeason series: 2-2 Well, the Greg Oden experiment apparently didn’t work. No one’s much seen Oden for months and all the work apparently saving him for Roy Hibbert in the conference finals seems like it’s going to be another Eddy Curry experiment. Worth the try, anyway. But the Heat shouldn’t have that much difficulty as long as they take the Pacers seriously. Not that the Heat is so scary anymore. They’re not with Ray Allen hitting the occasional shot and Shane Battier deciding which team he wants to coach next season. It’s just that the Pacers have been this inexplicable curiosity, losing playoff home games by 20 and 30 points, often showing the urgency and interest as if they are playing a preseason game in Evansville. If Roy Hibbert’s problem was Andrew Bynum being around was making him jealous they have bigger issues. These playoff have broken perfectly for Dwyane Wade’s season long recuperation and he finished off the Nets with a big game. Playing the fewest games of all the playoff teams and many one sided, the Heat should be in the best shape coming into this round. They’ll likely make a lineup change, as they do often, with Udonis Haslem, who rarely played in the Nets series, likely back starting to bang around with Hibbert. Hibbert had a huge 22 and 10 series against the Heat last season that still defies belief for one of the more ungainly players in the NBA. Kareem winces every time he sees that hook shot. The marquee matchup will be LeBron and Paul George with some entertaining battles in the regular season. Lance Stephenson and Wade also could be intriguing. Stephenson always is because no one knows what he’s thinking. The X-factor, in a sense, remains Chris Bosh, who has made big threes in the playoffs. The Pacers don’t have big men who’ll venture much outside, so it also comes down to whose system makes the other guys blink: Can Hibbert intimidate at the rim? Can Bosh on the outside? The Pacers were absolutely flummoxed in the first round by Atlanta’s shooting big men. Though the Pacers won’t be getting as much shooting space as they did against the somewhat soft-on-defense Hawks and Wizards. If Miami makes threes it could get ugly. Pick: Heat in six San Antonio Spurs (1) vs Oklahoma City Thunder (2)8 p.m. Monday TNTThe Spurs defeated the Dallas Mavericks in seven games and the Portland Trail Blazers in five gamesThe Thunder defeated the Memphis Grizzlies in seven games and the Los Angeles Clippers in six gamesSeason series: 4-0 Thunder I was pretty much ready to pick Oklahoma City until Ibaka’s injury. Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook, for as difficult as they make it on themselves with so little passing and ball movement, are amazing scorers and combined to average almost 60 per game against the Clippers, a pretty good defensive team. Though the Spurs are not as old as always believed and not as lacking in athletic ability, no one really matches those two Thunder players with Westbrook’s fury and Durant’s scoring wizardry. But one of the big elements for their defense, especially against the Spurs, is Ibaka’s rim protecting and ability to step out a hit a jump shot. Rookie Adams is a tough guy, but not as nimble and a rookie, after all. Maybe he starts; maybe Nick Collison. Maybe they go small, as they have done in the past with Spurs pest Reggie Jackson, and play Durant at power forward. After all, he is seven feet tall and it’s not like Tiago Splitter is going for 30. Hasheem Thabeet, anyone? Doubt it. They’ve also got Caron Butler and probably could downsize and scramble the game as the Spurs don’t go inside for scoring all that much. The defensive matchup will be Kawhi Leonard trying to deal with Durant. The Thunder don’t get much scoring inside, anyway, and it’s more their style to play fast from the outside. The Spurs are the idols of basketball insiders everywhere. They are the model franchise and team with players who defend and make everything difficult on their opponents and unselfish among each other. Their issue is Parker and whether he can avoid the hamstring problems. Patty Mills is a nice addition, but he’s no Russell Westbrook. Westbrook tends to relax on defense, which is fatal against Parker. The Spurs have the elite bench with Manu Ginobili and without the major interior threat will go inside more. You’d have thought there was no way they could get back again after last season’s brutal Game 6 Finals loss and series defeat. But here they are right on the brink again and perhaps valued even more. Pick: Spurs in six

(CHICAGO) – The Chicago Bulls announced today that Horace Grant has been named Special Advisor to President and Chief Operating Officer Michael Reinsdorf.“Horace is an incredible ambassador for the game of basketball. His ability to engage an audience, whether he is in a boardroom or a community center, will be invaluable to me and everyone at the Bulls as we continuously look for ways to grow our relationships with fans, corporate partners, and civic groups,” said Michael Reinsdorf. “Every time we are together, he always has fantastic stories about his days with the Bulls, but he is also eager to share about his life today with his family and his travels with the NBA. Horace will bring a terrific energy to his role at the Bulls.” “The Chicago Bulls have always had a special place in my heart and it means so much to be part of the family again,” said Horace Grant. “The team has given me memories that will last a lifetime and I am looking forward to creating even more in this new role. Serving as an NBA Goodwill Ambassador for the last six years has provided me with the opportunity to serve as a liaison between the league, fans and players, and I am excited to bring that experience and knowledge to the Bulls.”A 17-year veteran of the NBA, Grant spent seven seasons playing for the Chicago Bulls (1987-94). Originally selected by the Bulls with the 10th pick in the First Round of the 1987 NBA Draft, he played a key role in the team’s first Threepeat Championship run (1991-93); he also earned a fourth NBA title in 2001 as a member of the Los Angeles Lakers. He was an NBA All-Star in 1994 and earned NBA All-Defensive Second Team honors in 1993 and 1994. Overall, he appeared in 546 games with Chicago and averaged 12.6 points, 8.6 rebounds, 2.2 assists, 1.08 steals and 1.06 blocks; he also shot .530 from the floor with the Bulls. He ranks second in team annals for offensive rebounds, fourth in field goal percentage, sixth in steals and blocks, seventh in total rebounds, seventh in defensive boards, eighth in minutes played, 11th in games played and field goals made, and 12th in points.As an NBA Goodwill Ambassador, Grant has appeared on behalf of the league more than 85 times in 14 countries, including China, Brazil, Spain, Mozambique, and the Philippines. He will continue to work with the NBA and represent the league internationally.Grant joins Scottie Pippen and Toni Kukoc as Special Advisors to the President & COO. His new role begins in October 2016.
One of the most famous, or perhaps infamous, comments from an NBA player in a league that often features the most outrageous observations was Chicagoan Antoine Walker's unique declaration of independence almost 20 years ago responding to why he shot so many three pointers. Walker said he did so because there were no fours.These days in the NBA what seemed outrageous then, especially Walker's propensity for exceptionally long shots in transition accompanied with success by a full body shimmy, has become haute couture as personified by the Golden State Warriors' Stephen Curry. Curry's shooting and swaggering has become one of the the league's most popular attractions.Which actually explains Zach LaVine and his attempt at victory against the San Antonio Spurs Monday night. The Bulls lost 108-107 when LaVine's isolation-run-down-the-clock three missed and Ryan Arcidiacono's desperate attempt after a steal came up short. LaVine's shot selection was much questioned, but it's perhaps personified the NBA more than its critics.Why it has is probably is a complex and varied combination of AAU prep training, video game lifestyles, NBA rules changes and the desire of most major sports leagues to enhance offense in this era of short attention spans. Walker was joking. The NBA isn't anymore.The Bulls should continue to get a personal education this week as they play in Milwaukee Wednesday to begin a four-game road trip and Saturday in Houston. The Bucks are one of the biggest stories of the new season at second in the East, essentially the same players with a new coach and a new offensive philosophy of the three.The Bucks average more than 40 three point attempts per game, the only team doing so other than the Houston Rockets, whom the Bulls visit Saturday. There were plenty of reasons why LaVine likely attempted that shot, waving off a screen to avoid the double team, surrounded by several players not generally accustomed to taking or making late game shots, running down the clock to go for a rare win, anticipating a crowd at the basket and deciding as the team's leading scorer it was his responsibility. Not unlike James Harden at just about the same time Monday night on the way to 54 points with a bunch of those tightly contested long threes late in the game. True, Harden's team lost also, but who was he throwing it to? P.J. Tucker? Clint Capella? Remember when the maxim was you went for the tie at home and the win on the road. Monday trailing by two points in the last seconds, Dwyane Wade passed on a wide open elbow two pointer to pass back to Josh Richardson for a three. That missed. No one seemed too upset. Dwyane knows fashion. And, hey, Jimmy Butler won that game in Philadelphia Sunday with as unlikely a long, step back wing three. Remember, the 76ers also were down one when Jimmy faded back to take that extra long and more difficult three. And Jimmy draws as many fouls as anyone in the NBA.The difference? His went in.And remember when everyone kept condemning LeBron James for not taking that last shot, driving and passing instead? Isn't that the best player's job?Michael Jordan, of course, took a lot of those shots, and most were fearless attacks at the basket. Get to the free throw line. Make the defense commit. Perhaps a better chance for an offensive rebound with a miss. Make it an easier shot. All reasonable ideas. It's just not the way the NBA game is played anymore as much as many of us, including Spurs coach Gregg Popovich, don't like it.It so happened before Monday's game, Popovich was asked about the curiosity of his Spurs team, a team historically known for its defense, giving up more points than it was scoring. When in his long tenure had that occurred? Never, Popovich as quick to recall. He said he doubted his team could guard me. Nevertheless, I decided not to ask for a jersey."Now you look at a stat sheet after a game and the first thing you look at is the threes. If you made threes and the other team didn't, you win. You don't even look at the rebounds or the turnovers or how much transition D was involved. You don't even care. That's how much an impact the three-point shot has and it's evidenced by how everybody plays." Gregg PopovichNot having Tim Duncan, Manu Ginobili and Tony Parker, obviously, had something to do with that. Though with now a .500 team that only has a chance to make the playoffs, Popovich also acknowledged the inevitable evolution of the game that seems to be chasing out the strategies of he and many of his contemporaries.He hates it, by the way, in case you were wondering."The inside game is kaputski," Popovich explained without helping with the spelling."You've got to have downhill players, you've got to have people that can penetrate and kick, you've got to have people who can switch, you've got to have big guys who can play little guys," he said.And mostly you have to have players who can shoot the three.He really doesn't with a team 28th in attempts. They shoot them pretty well, but with a core of LaMarcus Aldridge, DeMar DeRozan and Rudy Gay, they don't often try. Which accounts to being a .500 team.Popovich, arguably the greatest coach of his era and one of the most celebrated in NBA history, admitted it's difficult to even defend these days the way the NBA has both emphasized three-point shooting while enforcing touch fouls and a lack of physical play on the perimeter. The league is averaging 110 points per game this season. In 2000-01, for example, the ball movement Kings led the league in scoring at 101.7 per game. Four teams averaged more than 100 points. Walker, by the way, attempted 603 threes to lead the NBA that season, almost 100 more than the second most. He was considered out of step. If he were a free agent today at 6-8 and a ball handler, he'd be the most sought after player in the league. Consider when Walker in the early 2000s was averaging more than 600 threes per season for about three seasons, the entire Bulls team was averaging about 900. Several teams barely averaged more per season than Walker alone. Everyone agreed you couldn't win that way. It would always be about defense."These days there's such an emphasis on the three because it's proven to be analytically correct," Popovich Monday offered with what appeared to be a sneer. "Now you look at a stat sheet after a game and the first thing you look at is the threes. If you made threes and the other team didn't, you win. You don't even look at the rebounds or the turnovers or how much transition D was involved. You don't even care. That's how much an impact the three-point shot has and it's evidenced by how everybody plays.""I hate it, but I always have," Popovich said even as he's adjusted over the years. "I've hated the three for 20 years. That's why I make a joke all the time (and say) if we're going to make it a different game, let's have a four-point play. Because if everybody likes the three, they'll really like the four. People will jump out of their seats if you have a five-point play. It will be great. There's no basketball anymore, there's no beauty in it. It's pretty boring. But it is what it is and you need to work with it."So we all need to understand Zach.He's with the times; we're just behind. Like it or not, and many of us certainly do not. But I suspect most of us are not in that marketing demographic all the marketers like so much.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

So what is going to be the reaction Friday when Derrick Rose and Joakim Noah make their first appearance in the United Center as members of the New York Knicks?Jimmy Butler and Taj Gibson expect standing ovations.“They’re going to get a lot of love,” Butler said late Wednesday night after the loss in Boston. “They will probably, definitely get a standing ovation. They’ve done so much for this organization, but even more than that they did so much for the community out there in Chicago.”Rose was traded to the Knicks for mainly Robin Lopez and Jerian Grant last June, and with Lopez coming to the Bulls it was clear that Noah was going to leave as a free agent. He did, signing a four-year contract with the Knicks, his hometown team. But Noah and Rose even with a disappointing and, at times, dysfunctional final Bulls season marred by injuries to numerous players and trying to adjust to a coaching change stand out as the two players who were most responsible for the team’s best seasons since the championship years, a thrilling conference finals run in 2011, Rose winning the league’s Most Valuable Player award, Noah winning Defensive Player of the Year, both multiple All Stars and among the most popular players in the NBA and in Chicago at the time. Rose’s three knee injuries and later Noah’s knee and shoulder surgeries slowed their rise and finally left the Bulls outside the playoffs for the first time during their run together. And so a new group began a new era for the Bulls this season. But that last group, and especially those two, thrilled the community when they had the chance.“He (Rose) should be received well,” said Bulls coach Fred Hoiberg. “Derrick did a lot of good things for the city, for the franchise. Obviously winning MVP, having some big moments in some big playoff series. So yeah, I think he’ll be received very well.”It is a game for the Bulls to get back on the right road, but it’s also a celebration, at least before that game.“It’s going to be another business kind of game,” said Taj Gibson. “I’m over here; they’re over there. We’re still trying to push forward, felt like (Wednesday) we should have won the game, could have been 4-0. But now we have to go back, evaluate what we need to do better, what I have to do better and focus on trying to get a win Friday.“We had a lot of fun (playing with Noah and Rose),” said Gibson. “The city was ecstatic, our team was ecstatic. We had a lot of great battles; nothing can ever take away the battles we had, lot of emotions. (Fans) should give them a good standing ovation; blood sweat and tears. They gave a lot of that blood, sweat and tears, but it’s still going to be a business trip for them. If you are going to boo, then boo, but cheer for us because we have to beat them.”Mixed emotions, and probably plenty of them Friday.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

Entering his 38th season, Irwin Mandel has the longest tenure of anyone with the Bulls ... the senior financial executive in the NBA, and one of the very most experienced in any management position in the League ... responsible for the Club's financial, legal, and corporate areas ... most important duties include player contracts, financial reports, and applying and interpreting the NBA’s salary cap, free agency and other collective bargaining rules ... one of the select few NBA executives chosen to serve on the committee to advise the League regarding salary cap rule changes ... said Commissioner David Stern recently, “nobody in the NBA understands the intricacies of the salary cap better than Irwin Mandel” ... also considered one of the NBA’s most knowledgeable and creative experts on player contracts and the collective bargaining rules ... helped develop NBA team financial statements and assisted the NBA Labor Relations Committee ... oversaw the instituting of a detailed budget plan for the office and negotiated the Club’s switch to charter travel ... mentor to many people in the front office…recently served as a consultant to two of the other major sports leagues regarding the benefits and workings of the NBA's salary cap and free agency systems ... received both his undergraduate degree in Accounting and his Law degree from Northwestern University ... he is a Certified Public Accountant and member of the Illinois Bar ... worked in the tax department of Arthur Andersen & Co. for four years prior to joining the Bulls ... formerly served two terms as President of the Northwestern University Club of Chicago and was a recipient of the Northwestern Alumni Service Award ... active in various charitable programs ... speaks regularly to business groups, law schools and college students regarding legal and financial management careers in professional sports ... avid tennis player and recent ardent (but ability–challenged) golfer … native Chicagoan ... married to Sheri, with two sons, Michael and Robby, daughter-in-law, Jamie, and most recent additions, grandchildren Sadie Ann and Eli. 
“We are all very proud of Jimmy.  He is very deserving of this award,” said Chicago Bulls General Manager Gar Forman. “He is incredibly driven and it is great to see all of the work that he has put in pay off for him and for us.”In 2014-15, Butler enjoyed his finest season in the NBA, as he improved his scoring from 13.1 to 20.0 ppg (15th in the NBA).  His 6.9-point improvement from 2013-14 was the greatest among all players who appeared in at least 40 games in each of the last two seasons.  He also raised his field goal shooting 6.5 percent (.397 to .462), which ranked second (Harrison Barnes with 8.3 percent: .399 to 482) among all players with at least 600 field goal attempts in each of the last two seasons.Overall, the 25-year old native of Tomball, Texas appeared in 65 games (all starts) and averaged a team-high 20.0 ppg, 5.8 rpg, 3.3 apg and 1.75 spg (11th in the NBA) in a league-high 38.7 mpg.  After posting a total of nine games with 20 or more points in his first three seasons (191 games), he produced 34 such games, including seven contests with 30 or more points, this past season.As part of the Kia NBA Performance Awards, a series of on-court performance awards, this award was determined by a panel of sportswriters and broadcasters who cover the NBA.  Players were awarded five points for each first-place vote, three points for each second-place vote and one point for each third-place vote.  Butler received 92 of the 129 (71.3 percent) first-place votes and 535 total points; Golden State’s Draymond Green finished second with 11 first-place votes and 200 total points.



The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.It’s the elephant in the room for the Bulls. Well, probably more so the gazelle in the room, that being the swift, long striding speedster that is Joakim Noah. Then there’s the giraffe, the graceful long limbed Pau Gasol.It’s getting difficult to overlook after the Bulls impressive 105-89 victory over the Los Angeles Clippers Monday.With Gasol joining Derrick Rose out injured, Noah had arguably his most complete game of the season with 11 points, 16 rebounds and six assists. And certainly the first all around game like that combined with his most emotional, reminiscent of last season’s fiery Noah who was named Defensive Player of the Year and all-NBA first team center.“Jo’s the head of this train going full steam ahead and when he’s like that it’s easy to follow,” said Jimmy Butler, who led the team with 22 points and eight assists.So the Bulls went out in free agency and signed a center, Gasol.Gasol can come dressed as a forward at times with his good shooting range. But with limited mobility and his inside play he’s best playing center. And that’s where the Bulls have primarily used him.This is no surprise and why Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau especially at media day to opening training camp in late September in his check your egos at the door speech said this season would be about sacrifice if the Bulls hoped to be a title contending team.It’s a general message, but likely aimed at Noah and Taj Gibson, who with the acquisition of Gasol—even as Noah recruited him—knew it would mean a different and less substantial role for Noah, especially regarding statistics.That’s because Noah on defense would have to guard the power forward, many of whom in this NBA are so called stretch fours who play outside. So Noah often has to chase smaller and quicker players. Being out of rebounding position has led to some of the Bulls early season rebounding deficits. And on offense, the Bulls for years searching out a post player now in Gasol have someone who can play that role. So they have tilted the offense, especially to start games, to run through Gasol inside.And Gasol hasn’t disappointed, leading the team in rebounding and blocks and second to Butler in scoring at 18.6 points and 10.6 rebounds. Gasol’s interior play against the Raptors last week was a clinic on post offense. But Gasol with a sore calf missed his first game of the season against the Clippers Monday.Noah went on to have his best game, though Noah has been improving the last five games. And it was in Los Angeles before a rare two-night stay and full day off before heading to Sacramento for Thursday’s national TNT game.“He was pumped up,” laughed Gibson.But Gibson, who had 20 points and six assists starting for Gasol and who has had to address his own disappointment at not being able to start with the acquisition of Gasol, summarized the change for Noah.“Thinking about last year, he had to be the guy at the elbow making a lot of plays,” said Gibson. “Now he had to adjust his game to playing with Pau. So it is kind of different. He is there with another seven-footer, so it kind of clogs up the paint. He is finding his way. He is taking his time, working on his leg, getting his body stronger again, especially his lower body, and he’s just getting better and better.”But it raises the question of whether Noah loses his effectiveness as an all-league center playing that way. Of course, in the season Noah played that way the Bulls were eliminated in the first round of the playoffs. Noah never says much about the changes, though his uncertainty seems apparent at times. But he’s also coming back from off season knee surgery that has resulted in him wearing a brace and going through extensive regular rehabilitation.“Jo’s timing is coming around,” said Thibodeau. “He’s feeling a lot better. It’s been slow. But you can tell; he’s got the bounce back. He was great.”What was most striking, however, was the unrestrained joy and enthusiasm Noah brought to Monday’s game, something that’s not been as noticeable this season. Noah was immersed in Monday’s game, waving a towel standing in front of the bench, jumping into defensive crouches like Thibodeau does to encourage teammates, shouting defensive instructions and at opponents, talking constantly, gesturing with his made shots. It’s easy to jump to the connection that back in his familiar role in the center of the Bulls offense, Noah was a better player.Of course, Noah, asked about that after the game, tried to deflect any potential conflict.“Sacrifices must be made,” said Noah. “To get to where you want to get to, you have to make sacrifices. Overall, we know in the big picture we need all our guys. Whenever Thibs calls my number, I’ll be ready.”It thus raises the obvious question—anyone see a gazelle streaking through the locker room?—of whether that number should not only be called first to start but with Gibson.“Jo and Taj have great chemistry together,” noted Thibodeau.So start them?Play Gasol off the bench with Gibson and Nikola Mirotic?That’s not really the answer. There are no easy and certain answers since Gasol is one of the best centers in the league and it’s generally not a good idea to play an older veteran off the bench after he warms up and then sits. Start Mirotic with Noah? A rookie isn’t starting for these Bulls if it’s not Doug McDermott, and it seems unlikely to be McDermott as well the way Mike Dunleavy has played.It’s just 11 games in, and this is a Joakim Noah who was eased in during training camp, missed a few early season games and has had his playing time limited for health and recovery reasons. So as Thibodeau noted, it’s been more difficult to work in offensive sets for Noah compared with Gasol. And Noah is improving.In his first four games, Noah averaged six points, 9.8 rebounds and 2.8 assists.In his past five games (with two missed in between), Noah is averaging 10 points, 10.6 rebounds and six assists, the exact same number in each of the last five games. Noah is now averaging for the season 8.2 points, 10.2 rebounds and 4.6 assists. Last season, he averaged 12.6 points, 11.3 rebounds and 5.4 assists. His picture introduces the players’ section of the team’s media guide.“He’s been coming real fast,” said Thibodeau. “The last three or four games really coming on.”Though as Butler and Thibodeau note, it’s also Noah’s energy and enthusiasm that motivates and inspires his teammates. Can Noah maintain that level of zeal in a less demanding and involved role?These things obviously can be worked out in rotations during the game to pair Noah with Gibson. For now given Noah’s playing time restrictions, Thibodeau generally takes out Noah late in the first quarter and has Gibson play with Gasol and then rotates Noah back with Gibson some though more so again with Gasol. As Noah’s physical condition improves, that could change with playing time. And the more confidence Mirotic develops with his shot, perhaps he’ll play more with Gasol, who also is an excellent passer out of the post when he draws double teams. Though if Noah’s minutes increase, perhaps Thibodeau will stay primarily with the three big men, whom he calls starters for any team in the league.For years, the Bulls have been seeking more depth, more size and a post option on offense. You don’t want to inhibit that even if occasionally it doesn’t smell exactly right.

Bulls management Wednesday explained, and there was news, there was what was known, and mostly, hardly unsurprisingly, uncertainty going forward. Which actually was not that surprising.The news was that the Bulls intend to bring back Rajon Rondo, who has a team option and relatively small buyout in his contract.“There’s a really good chance that we bring Rajon back and for these reasons,” said Executive Vice President of Basketball Operations John Paxson. “As we get younger, it’s still really important to have quality veterans around your young players. To a man, our young people loved Rajon. He was great in the locker room. He was great off the court with these guys. He took them under his wing in a lot of ways, and he was responsible for a lot of the good things that came from them. We have a lot of respect for Rajon, especially how he believes in the game. He used to drag guys into the weight room, and he held them accountable in a lot of ways. We really take a lot from him.”What was known was the return of coach Fred Hoiberg, which Paxson supported with emphasis.“Fred’s our coach. He’ll be back,” Paxson said in his opening statement.“We made a commitment to Fred. Whether we’ve given him (the right roster), maybe we haven’t. I mentioned to you last year that I view young coaches in this league like young players. They have to develop and grow, too. I’m not going to get into the specifics about things we’ve seen. I think Fred’s challenge this offseason is to find ways to be a better leader. I think he showed progress in that area. The team did rally around him at times. But again, that’s part of the process, too. We made the commitment to him. We support him. And we’re in this with him. That’s how an organization has to work."A big part of that uncertainty, meanwhile, is the option Dwyane Wade has on whether to return as the highest paid player on the team at $23.8 million. It’s Wade’s option, and though he doesn’t have to tell the team until after the draft, he seemed to indicate at his post season session with reporters he will return. Wade said then he could see himself, if necessary, being a mentor to young players. In other words, “Are you giving up $24 million to hang out with LeBron? Not me.”It also seemed like the Bulls would try to retain restricted free agent Nikola Mirotic.“We value Niko,” said General Manager Gar Forman. “Niko made it clear that he wants to be in Chicago. We made it clear that we would like for him to be in Chicago. When those things align, you hope you can get something done when July 1 comes. We certainly would hope that Niko would be back.” Forman also said the Bulls hoped to retain fellow free agent Cristiano Felicio, though, again depending on a potential offer.Which didn’t provide any greater clarity to the question of whether the team will/would want to/would even consider trading Jimmy Butler. Not because they don’t believe he is their best player. Paxson basically said without hesitation, there’s no one close.But how do you get off a 41-41 treadmill?“When we signed (Rondo and Wade) last year they understood what they were coming to,” reminded Paxson. “We had already made the deal for Robin (Lopez), so they understood what the deal was. We haven’t altered from that course. Dwyane has an option and we’re going to sit down with him and talk to him about all of this. The thing with Jimmy is all of us would love to go out and get another a superstar player to go along with him, but right now the situation we’re in, the salaries we have, that type of thing, that’s a difficult thing for us to manage.“Jimmy is far and away our best player,” Paxson reiterated. “He’s an all-NBA type guy. His work ethic, as most people know, is one of the best in the league. Our job, you always have to keep things open. We’re going to sit down with Jimmy again. We’re going to talk to him and we’re going to define to him, with him, our thoughts. That’s not for today. We respect Jimmy, we respect his opinion and we will sit down and talk with him.”Which sounded like the obvious, which seems to have occurred: We’re not with our record in position to make anyone untouchable. But you better knock us over. No one has come close to doing so.Which could pretty much leave little, if any, room to pursue free agents. And though the Bulls have to consider all options after a .500 season, it sounded a lot like another season to be patient and then perhaps with substantial salary cap room after next season—and most teams without similar financial availability—strike. After all, it’s not like the Cavs and Warriors are quite close to being spent yet.“We’ve got a lot of guys under contract. The landscape is such that to make significant change right now will be difficult. To think that we could just up and massively move pieces and parts is not realistic. We made the statement last year we were investing in the young guys. I know it sounds like a broken record, but it’s the truth. We brought in five young kids on our roster, two that we’re going to add (their pick in this draft and Sacramento’s second). It’s not about what leads us to believe we don’t need change. We know change is a part of this, but we don’t want to change without knowing exactly what we have. I don’t feel that we’ve given our young kids a chance to see. We know we’re on the line for that. We scout them. We drafted them. We traded for them. That’s part of the job. But we have to give them an opportunity."No one is saying they still could be playing if Rondo wasn’t hurt against Boston. They lost. But if there doesn’t seem like there will be any obvious change in abandoning the current roster, there will be changes, and it could be the kind that help turn average into much better.After all, this was the first season this group of players was together. Butler, Wade and Rondo seemed to have finally figured out late in the season how to play together and respect one another. And stop communicating by social media. Perhaps that comfort along with more certainty in the roster and rotation will enable the team to make the sort of leap that could get it in position to strike with a top free agent after next season when the advantage falls to the Bulls in the open market.“Our expectation is our young guys will have a more consistent, more defined role,” said Paxson. “There was too much inconsistency in the rotations and trying to plug holes from game to game. Our expectation as an organization (going into last season) was to be competitive, but also create an environment where our young players grew and developed in a competitive environment. Some of that happened, but we saw what you saw and what a lot of our fans saw: Inconsistency in our play and really a team that was searching for an identity much of the season. Getting to the playoffs, always for a young group of guys, is something that they can learn from. But we always know that’s not the goal. Gar and I are committed to reshaping the roster, continuing to do that in that in a disciplined fashion.”It didn’t suggest the Bulls were saying they are not that far away. But that with a tighter rotation, more defined roles (you’re a starter; you’re a reserve) and perhaps a few additions in free agency or trade to the periphery you might see what they hoped to see this past season.“It's fair to say we don't have great shooting,” Paxson agreed. “That's something we have to be on the lookout for. Outside of Rondo, our point guards did not play with push and pace the way Fred wants to play. So yes, we have to continue to look at the style he wants to play, and look at players that fit that. Last year, maybe we did plug some holes and do some patchwork stuff that maybe did not turn out. That's our responsibility. But as disjointed as the team was, we ended up winning seven of our last 10 games. Against Boston when Rajon was healthy, we end up playing our best basketball of the year. It's not an excuse, Rajon goes down and we fall apart. We didn't have the support system behind him to help us win that series. We can sit here and say with him, we might have still been playing, but it didn't happen.”So it’s not the time to panic. They did use the word process, which is not copyrighted by the 76ers, who, the Bulls noticed, you may also not want to be. They didn’t exactly say that, but frequent media suggestions to dismantle the team generally mean reporters have a Cubs game to get to.“We have those discussions all the time,” said Paxson. “But the opportunity has to be right. We understand what we’re facing. We’ve understood it since last year when we decided to change course. To say just blow it up? For example, if we don’t get something in return that puts us in a position to really move forward, you can’t do that. We’ve talked about (Jimmy). Ideally, in the system Fred wants to run, we need to play with pace and push. Jimmy’s a different player than some of these other guys. He has the ball in his hands a lot. But there was a stretch of games late in the year he had some big assist games. We know his value. To say just blow it up? It’s easy to say it. It’s tough to do it.“You see it around the league, it's (often) six, eight, 10 years before you get back in the playoffs,” Paxson pointed out. “You have to be a little bit lucky and the year you draft it has to hit for you.”And now players come to the NBA at 19. Sure, the scouts are excited about this draft loaded with point guards, perhaps the game’s most important position in this era. The Bulls know they still need to get a good one. Rondo seemingly will return, but he’s signed for one more season. Maybe he can start and mentor a young point guard like the Chicago Bears NFL team appears to be doing with a quarterback draft. Forman did say given the late acquisition and injury issues, the team will give another look to point guard Cameron Payne. But Paxson said they’ll continue their search for a top level point guard, and he also make it clear auditions are over going forward. The rotation has to be consistent.Paxson also disputed reports the team’s management structure has changed.“I’m going to make this clear,” said Paxson. “The setup we’ve had since Gar was named GM in 2009…, the hierarchy is the same. My responsibility is reporting to Jerry and Michael (Reinsdorf). Gar’s responsibility is reporting to me. We overlap in what we do every single day and we work well together. This is very much like in the business world, CEO, COO relationship. My responsibilities lie mostly in defining the culture of what we do every day; Gar’s responsibility as GM is in the day to day grind of this business. In my role, I always have the ability to say yes or no. It's that simple.”Without naming teams, Forman indicated that after this summer, most teams will find themselves locked into long terms deals and being who they are. Perhaps then the Bulls can strike.“It’s our feeling that if you look where this is going the market is going to flatten and in some ways close. When that time comes, if you’ve got a level of flexibility, it’s going to open up a lot of opportunities where we won’t be hamstrung and feel we’ll be in an advantageous situation. I know a lot of fans don’t want to talk about cap and cap situations and spikes and where we’re at managing that. But I do think we’re setting ourselves up from the cap standpoint to take advantage of opportunities, whether those opportunities are this summer or next year or when they come about."Paxson added: “There are a ton of teams, because this is the second year of the cap going up, well positioned financially to have a lot of cap space. We're not one to have a lot of cap space (this summer) unless we would renounce guys, and that's not what we're going to do.”Forman: “Are we good enough? Are we where we want to be? Obviously, not. We're 41-41, a 500 team.”The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
The Bulls have been burned this season, but it is part of the plan."We're throwing them into the fire. We knew we were going to get younger," Bulls Executive Vice President of Basketball Operations John Paxson told reporters before Friday's game with Indiana. "We knew there would be struggles. We need to see what our young guys can do. Hopefully they'll respond in a competitive way. I keep telling Jim (Boylen, coach), 'This league is always about wins and losses, we always want to win. But right now we have to focus on other things.' We've said that all year long."The other thing, for now, is the debut of likely the youngest starting five in the NBA, the Bulls with Chandler Hutchison at small forward following the trade of Justin Holiday to the Memphis Grizzlies. Hutchison joins a core of Bulls lottery picks Zach LaVine, Lauri Markkanen, Kris Dunn and Wendell Carter Jr.It's truly the first step forward after several steps back to try to get the franchise going in the right direction again. "We need to see growth," Paxson said about the young core. "We need to see how they play. We're a month into Jim's tenure now and I think they understand what's expected. So we're going to go out on the road here after these next two games (five starting in Portland Wednesday). That's a good time for a young team to get together. They're going to be hard games. We just need to see development. That's going to be a big key."It's hardly a finished Bulls product with veterans like Robin Lopez and Jabari Parker still on the roster with hopefuls like Ryan Arcidiacono and newly acquired Wayne Selden from the deal. The two second round picks were crucial, Paxson said.Paxson left open the possibility of Parker playing again after being benched the last seven games."The one thing Jim has been really consistent with is the accountability aspect," said Paxson, who has supported Boylen's decisions. "I believe you can hold players to a certain standard of what you want as a coach. Jabari is a really good guy. He's a terrific person. If we can acclimate him back into things, he's going to get a chance. This league is about getting chances, even for players who have been through what Jabari has been through."We were all on board with (signing Parker)," said Paxson. "That's all in the past. We're not even going to worry about that. With the situation the way it is, we'll look and see if Jabari gets an opportunity. This thing will be fluid. We have a month until the trade deadline. A lot can happen. We feel really good about getting something done a month early. It's all in building a team. Given where we were at and where we are at today, trying to roll the dice on a young talent (like Parker) is not a bad thing. A lot of teams have had success doing that. The one thing that we continue to do and we think we're on the right track with is if something doesn't work, it's not going to be a long-term issue for us. We'll continue to operate that way."Paxson said there is nothing imminent regarding other trades. "If we can acquire young players, draft assets, we can maybe look at our roster and think there's a better fit, we'll go that route," Paxson said.Paxson admitted the team's offense is more stagnant than he'd like, but it's all part of a moving parts roster and staff."We've talked about that and the issue right now is we've got to get a little more pace to our game," said Paxson. "Jim came in and talked to us about it. He wanted to try to establish something on the defensive end. We're doing a better job there. We're a young team; it's going to be a work in progress for a while. Jim knows. We talk about it every day. We've got to find a way offensively to get some easier shots and that type of thing and get guys to find some comfort zone out there. That's what the rest of this season is, 40-plus games left. Again, hopefully our guys will be healthy and we can see this group, how they grow together, what our needs will be going down the road. That part is exciting. Obviously, and I say this all the time, my expectation is for our guys to compete hard. That's fallen short at times, but we need to do a real good job of that."I don't think you can necessarily pay attention to everything all at once," Paxson added. "You make a (coaching) change in season it's very hard for the coach. You didn't have a training camp to establish things. Practice time is limited. This will be a good time for us to improve in that area. We've got a lot of games left.We need to see what our young guys can do. Hopefully they'll respond in a competitive way. I keep telling Jim (Boylen, coach), 'This league is always about wins and losses, we always want to win. But right now we have to focus on other things.' We've said that all year long." John Paxson"Obviously, what we did is consistent with our direction," Paxson added. "Getting the two second round picks was important to us. Letting Justin go is always hard. He's been such a model teammate for the players and has represented us so well. But it speaks to the direction and accumulating draft assets. We're going to keep Wayne Selden. He's a young player who at some point, we'll see if he can give us something. "You make decisions and hope for the best," Paxson said about releasing Cameron Payne. "The reality is both Arch (Ryan Arcidiacono) and Shaq (Harrison) have outplayed him. They fit what we want to do. Cam had some struggles with his foot and trying to get him back. "What it does is it gives Chandler an opportunity to play. He'll play some significant minutes I would think," said Paxson. "He has to live up to the standards that Jim wants and we want. But he'll get opportunity. We still have some decisions to make with our roster. But our young guys will play. We're going to be starting a really young team. Looking long term and big picture, this is about the future. We think a year and a half into the big move we made (trading Jimmy Butler), we have to focus on that. It's hard to lose. You walk into the locker room and guys are competing, coaches are preparing, so that's hard. But from my seat, Gar's (Forman) seat, ownership's seat, we have to keep the big picture in mind. And that's what we're doing.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

Johnson (6-9, 245) appeared in 13 games this season and averaged 3.2 ppg, 1.8 rpg,1.1 apg, 9.5 mpg, and shot .415 from the field.  Last season, during his rookie campaign, Johnson played in 65 games (11 starts) and posted averages of 3.9 ppg and 2.0 rpg in 11.6 mpg and shot .452 from the floor and .729 from the free throw line.    Johnson played two seasons at Wake Forest and was selected by Chicago in the first round (16th overall) of the 2009 NBA Draft. 

The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.Page 1 of 2It would be called the Last Dance. But hardly anyone was in a party mood to begin the 1997-98 season and the run for a second three-peat.The growing feud between Phil Jackson and General Manager Jerry Krause had drained Jackson along with the demands of almost a decade of leading the greatest sporting spectacle ever. Jackson had met with Managing Partner Jerry Reinsdorf in Park City during the 1997 Finals and said it would be his final season after the playoffs. Reinsdorf counseled patience. Jackson had long held the belief that seven years was the maximum a coach could work with a team. Jackson even felt walking away after 72-10 in the 1995-96 season, his seventh with the Bulls as head coach, would be ideal. But several players, led by Ron Harper, had come to Jackson's home after the season to ask him to return. Jackson felt he could not leave that group after the effort they'd put in. But Jackson was going year-to-year now in his own mind. Reinsdorf would go to Jackson's lake home in Montana later that summer, and Jackson would say definitively the 1997-98 would be his final season with the Bulls.Jordan could sense all that, and soon after the Bulls won that fifth championship, Jordan asked that he, Scottie Pippen and Dennis Rodman be allowed to return to defend their title.Not only could he do all, but he seemed to now know all.Phil Jackson always had a different summer than most NBA coaches. As we knew, much was different about Jackson. And the Bulls were willing to accommodate him. While most NBA coaches are around at times in the summer for summer league or mini-camps, Jackson spends the summer in Montana recharging. Jackson generally would leave shortly after the NBA draft.With Jackson heading into what appeared to be his final season, Krause decided he didn't need Jackson the day of the draft. The snub hit the media and exposed the cracks in the relationship months before the season would start.Krause was pushing to trade Scottie Pippen in a package deal for draft picks to Boston. Krause was anxious to begin a rebuilding, knowing Pippen was going into his last season on his contract and was determined not to return to the Bulls. Boston had lost out on the lottery pick for Tim Duncan, and coach Rick Pitino was looking for a star level player. Krause wanted one of the No. 1 draft picks for Tracy McGrady, whom he would pursue without success in free agency in 2000.Krause believed the Bulls could win anyway in 1997-98 without Pippen, and be in position to rebuild without bottoming out. And Pippen would miss the first half of the season, anyway. Krause may actually have been right. Though Krause often was at odds with many of the players and suffered in the public view, his moves clearly were instrumental in giving Jordan the opportunity to sustain winning. His theories generally made sense, like trading Pippen to get value and later dealing Elton Brand for a pair of seven-footers. His scouting wasn't great in the Chandler/Curry draft, but the thinking was right. Again, it probably was time to trade Pippen. Krause wasn't the sentimentalist, which also didn't serve him well in the public view. It was too big a risk then and would be too unpopular to break up a 72-win and 69-win team at that time. Maybe the Bulls could then have avoided the collapses of the early 2000s. For everyone but Krause, it wasn't the right time.Eventually, Reinsdorf would reject Krause's plans, saying he agreed with Jordan that the players should have a chance to defend their title. Despite Krause's feelings, Reinsdorf also had previously offered Jackson a five-year contract that would extend to well after Jordan had retired, whether it would be in 1998, 1999 or 2000. Jackson declined, saying he didn't want to be part of a rebuilding. Reinsdorf never backed off his belief that Jackson was the game's best coach.It also didn't help that Krause's daughter was married that summer and Krause invited several of the Bulls' top staff to the wedding, as well as coach-to-be Tim Floyd and his wife. The Jacksons weren't invited, and only found out about the affair when one of their friends on the Bulls staff had called and asked June Jackson what she was wearing to the wedding. "What wedding?" This was not going to have a happy ending.Meanwhile, with $30 million now Jordan's base salary, it was easier this time and Jordan signed for a 10 percent raise to about $33 million.I always wondered if I missed an opportunity for a valuable keepsake. I had seen Reinsdorf around that time and he handed me a thin piece of paper, a strip about an inch wide ripped off an eight-by-11 piece of paper. Rodman had scrawled across the strip that he wanted to be paid $9 million for that season. Yes, that was his official contract proposal.Reinsdorf handed it to me to look at, laughing. It wasn't exactly a classic contract negotiation. Yes, it's what they dealt with having Rodman. I laughed and gave it back to Reinsdorf and he threw the scrap into the garbage.What do you think that would have brought on eBay?I think Rodman did get the $9 million, though I believe a lot of it was deferred, as he signed after camp started and the team had returned from an exhibition game in Paris.In any case, everyone would be back.It started badly at the traditional media day when the players meet reporters for the first time of the season and then start training camp.Krause talked, it seemed to many too happily, about Jackson's final season, and then made his famous, if often misquoted, comments about organizations winning championships. Krause really was trying to give some credit to the many around the organization who don't get credit. But Krause had bumbled through saying something about players "alone" don't win in trying to spread some credit and make a point about previous dynasties like the Lakers and Celtics coming back after transcendent stars departed. It came out badly, as usual with Krause, and reporters gleefully rushed to Jackson with the misquote. It was passed on as "organizations" win championships, not players. Jackson said only someone like Krause would say that.Krause just had trouble saying the right thing. He would try, but it didn't come out the way it was supposed to. For example, Jordan, like many players, is a creature of ritual, if not superstition. He always was the last guy to get taped, he stood in the same place for the national anthem, was the last guy to get resin and clap it in front of broadcaster Johnny Kerr's face. Jordan also made a habit of getting the game notes after being taped and then going to the bathroom last, before Jackson did his pregame remarks. Invariably, Krause would use the bathroom at the same time.Jordan, as was his custom by then, skipped media day, and when he showed up the following day he made clear that under no circumstances would he play for the Bulls again unless Jackson were coach. It would turn out that way, though the lockout of 1999 may have changed things anyway as Jordan suffered a severe gash with a cigar cutter and was unable to grip a basketball for months afterward. Plus, Jordan again seemed burned out and was particularly angry with Pippen, who blew off the first part of the season by waiting to have foot surgery just before the start of the season and finished it not playing much to close the Finals with a bad back. Plus, Pippen had spent the early part of the season saying he was quitting the team right then, and as a free agent after 1997-98 he certainly would not return. Pippen would years later admit he never was the same player after that 1998 surgery. Rodman tried to play with Dallas and the Lakers afterward and only made a mess of both teams and was mostly ineffective.I don't believe, even had Jordan returned, the Bulls would have been able to win again in the 1999 lockout shortened season, especially with Pippen gone, which he would have been.The Bulls went to Paris without Rodman and Pippen unable to play, and it was a lovefest for Jordan. The French still reveled in excess and exception, and no one was more special than Jordan. He would have to be for 1997-98.If the Bulls were going to get there for No. 6, it was going to have to be a relentless push from Jordan, almost all alone like years before....
Karen Stack-Umlauf is moving into one of the more prominent roles among women in the NBA as a regular assistant on the staff of new coach Jim Boylen.“Karen Stack Umlauf is going to have a bigger role in what we do,” Boylen said before Tuesday’s game with the Indiana Pacers. “I believe in her basketball acumen; she’s got great instincts. She’s going to do game plans and game preps. She’s going to be on the floor coaching. They’re going to hear her voice, and she’s earned this opportunity."“She’s a lifer, she’s a junky, and she’s sharp,” Boylen said about the onetime administrative assistant to former general manager Jerry Krause who has been with the Bulls for more than 30 years. “To me we’re not looking at women or men, this or that. (It’s) who can teach, who can coach, who can make people better. That’s what this level is about, every level really. In college, you have to recruit. So that throws a little different wrinkle in it, but it’s about making people better, and I think she can help us do that and she can assist me in a positive way.’’Stack-Umlauf had been added to Fred Hoiberg’s staff last summer as an associate coach. She moves up in a shuffle that Tuesday included assistant coach Randy Brown resigning.Brown played for the Bulls 1996-98 NBA champions and then rejoined the team in 2009 as director of player personnel. Brown moved to assistant general manager then to the bench as an assistant under Hoiberg. Boylen said he outlined several changes that included Brown remaining as an assistant but in a new spot in the second row. Brown submitted his resignation Tuesday afternoon.Boylen said his staff reshuffling included moving video coordinator Paul Miller and player development coach Shawn Respert into new roles. Dean Cooper, a Boylen colleague from Houston who was with the Windy City Bulls also was added to the staff. Boylen said he asked Brown to remain in a new role, but Brown declined.“I was excited about keeping the guys I had, but I was going to shuffle some roles, shuffle some responsibilities and assignments that I thought was best for the team,” Boylen explained. “When I met with my coaches I gave them the role I wanted them to have and everybody thought it was good for them. Coach Brown didn’t think that was something he wanted to do and he thought it was best for him and his family that he move on. I’m disappointed. I wanted Coach Brown on our staff, but I understand. He wasn’t demoted. Just a different role, different assignment; he was an assistant coach. It just wasn’t for him."“He’ll be missed, but a guy’s got to do what a guy’s got to do,” Boylen said. "He’s going to move on and we’re going to move on. All I’ve been preaching for the last, what is it, 24 hours, 36 hours, whatever, is that we are going to uphold the concept of team and we were going to have a commitment to everything we do. I think Coach Brown felt from his position that it was something he could not do, so I give him credit for that. He’ll always be a special guy to me, and we’re moving on. We got games to play and we’ve got players to develop.  The train is moving out, so we gotta get going. We’ve got a franchise to uphold."The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.
It was during one month in October just before the start of the 1986-87 season that general manager Jerry Krause built the Bulls into a champion. It would take almost five years before the Bulls made it to the NBA Finals and then a championship. But it was those few weeks in October that assured the team’s future with the draft picks in the middle of the lottery, where the Bulls figure to be this season.Here’s a look at how the Bulls did picking between 6 and 9 in previous NBA drafts.Meanwhile, it was one of those Krause October 1986 transactions that yielded the Bulls a first round selection, No. 6 in the 1989 draft. The Bulls would use it for Stacey King, now a Bulls broadcaster. And while King did not reach the distinction he produced in college, he did become a valuable reserve for three Bulls championship teams.King was one of two No. 6 picks in the draft the Bulls have had in their franchise history. The other was Orlando Woolridge in 1981, who would figure in that October surprise. In fact, it was refusing to match the New Jersey Nets free agent offer sheet for Woolridge that netted the Bulls the No.6 pick they would use for King.The Bulls in this 2018 NBA lottery have the best odds to obtain the No. 6 pick in the June draft. The Bulls currently are in the sixth spot for the lottery drawing. They have the best odds to retain No. 6, which is 44.02 percent. Their next best odds at 33.05 percent are for No 7. Then their next best odds are 6.96 percent for No. 3, 6.02 percent for No. 2, 5.3 percent for No. 1 and 4.53 percent for No. 8. There is a minuscule chance they would fall to No. 9. Woolridge, a 6-9 forward from Notre Dame drafted in 1981, should have been a brilliant, athletic complement to Michael Jordan. But he would be felled by drug problems with the Bulls and after five seasons in Chicago allowed to sign with the Nets for the compensation of the first round pick and two seconds. Woolridge averaged more than 20 points his last two seasons with the Bulls, 22.9 in Jordan’s rookie season and 20.7 in 1985-86 when Jordan missed most of the season with a broken foot. Woolridge was a spectacular dunker and great practitioner of the alley-oop dunk, though he didn’t develop much of a shot until later in his career. He played with six NBA teams after the Bulls, was suspended by the league for drug use, and he also played overseas.
King was one of the top collegiate scorers in a wide open U. of Oklahoma game, averaging 26 points and 10 rebounds as a senior. But he was blocked in Chicago from a starting role by Horace Grant. He played five seasons for the Bulls, averaging 6.6 points, and was traded to Minnesota for Luc Longley. Longley became the starting center on the second Bulls championship triple.But it was that deft maneuvering with draft picks in that five to 10 range, where the Bulls potentially sit this season, that enabled Krause to construct the tower around the foundation of Jordan.What started the events that October was Bulls center Juwan Oldham signing a free agent offer sheet with the Knicks. The Bulls had no intention of retaining the shot blocking Oldham, but they wanted to get something in return. He had been with losing Bulls teams for four years. The pivotal element was obtaining the draft pick from the Knicks. It was a more principled way of building a team instead of the intentional losing that has gone on in recent years around the NBA.The Knicks had traded Chicagoan Darrell Walker to the Denver Nuggets for their draft pick, which became No. 8. So the Bulls swapped Oldham for that pick in the 1987 draft. Meanwhile, Seattle had traded Gerald Henderson to the Knicks for their No. 5 draft pick, the Knicks looking quickly to put together a competitive team now that they had Patrick Ewing and Bill Cartwright. The Knicks got No. 18 in exchange and used it for guard Mark Jackson.The Bulls had sniffed out Scottie Pippen from little Central Arkansas U. for that 1987 draft. But Pippen’s stock began to soar with impressive redraft camp performances. Krause then used the No. 8 pick he’d acquired for Oldham to induce Seattle.The Supersonics wanted Georgetown guard Reggie Williams with their No. 5 pick. The Bulls also had their own pick, which was No. 10. Seattle wasn’t interested, but told Krause if Williams were not available at No. 5, they would swap their No. 5 for the Bulls No. 8 that came from the Oldham deal along with a future second round pick. The Sacramento Kings at No. 6 were all in on Pippen and desperately trying to trade up to get him as well. The Los Angeles Clippers selected Williams. So the Supersonics agreed to the trade for the Bulls No. 8 pick they had acquired from the Knicks.The Bulls selected Pippen with No. 5. Seattle took Olden Polynice with the Bulls pick at No. 8. The Bulls then used their own pick at No. 10 for Grant. Reggie Miller went next at No. 11.The Bulls were able to move up two spots in the 1985 draft —Krause’s first as general manager—from No. 11 to No. 9 to get Charles Oakley by swapping picks with Cleveland and giving Cleveland guard Ennis Whatley. Oakley then was traded to New York for Cartwright in a swap of first round picks, the Bulls using theirs for Will Perdue. Thus the Bulls were able with those transactions and the draft picks to fill out their championship starting lineup and much of the bench that became so important in winning the playoff series against Detroit in 1991 and going on to three titles.Thus there is much a team can do not only with players selected at the top of the lottery but also with draft picks in the second five of the draft:No. 7. 2017. Lauri Markkanen. The Finnish forward was acquired through the Jimmy Butler trade when the Bulls swapped their No. 16 pick to Minnesota. Markkanen was the Bulls leading scorer and rebounder among regulars who played all season as a rookie. He set NBA rookie three-point shooting records and was considered an NBA rising star.No. 7. 2003. Kirk Hinrich. This was supposed to be the Dwyane Wade draft. The local kid from Marquette had a breakout NCAA tournament, but few still saw any great stardom. It was the LeBron/Carmelo draft with this Darko curiosity. Pat Riley in Miami always believed you build with a big man and seemed intent on taking Chris Kaman, which would have pushed Wade to seventh. The Bulls were certain they’d get Wade even up to draft day. Riley was persuaded only on draft day by his staff to go for Wade. The Bulls were in a late scramble with staff split among Hinrich, shooter Jarvis Hayes and defender Michael Pietrus. John Paxson made the right call with his first draft choice as GM.No. 7. 2000. Jamal Crawford. That draft was the start of the departure of Elton Brand. The Bulls used their No. 4 pick for Marcus Fizer and then from the Toni Kukoc trade acquired the Washington pick, No. 7. They ended up flipping it with Cleveland (Chris Mihm) right behind at No. 8 to take Jamal Crawford. Crawford had ACL surgery after his first season, but then came on fast to average 17.3 points his fourth season with the Bulls with a 50-point game. Crawford then was traded to the Knicks for a package led by Othella Harrington.No. 7. 1982. Quintin Dailey. Probably the most embarrassing pick in franchise history. Dailey was a talented shooting guard, averaging more than 25 his last season in college at the U. of San Francisco, powerful with a good touch. But he pleaded guilty to assault just days before the draft, causing the National Organization for Women to picket the Bulls opening game in protest. Dailey was also suspended multiple times for drug problems. He played four years for the Bulls and then for the Clippers and Supersonics in a 10-year career.No. 9. 2007. Joakim Noah. The pick used to select Noah was acquired in the Eddy Curry trade. Noah went on to become a multiple All-Star, the Defensive Player of the Year, and the heart of soul of several Bulls teams and one of the most popular players in franchise history.No. 9.  1986. Brad Sellers. The seven footer came along decades too soon. Michael Jordan was persuaded the Bulls should have drafted ACC player Johny Dawkins; little known Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski was condemning the Bulls for not taking Dawkins. Sellers was a big guy who could shoot from outside, even from three-point range. But the Bulls were demanding he be a physical, inside player. He lost his starting job after two seasons to Scottie Pippen and then was traded after three seasons to Seattle for the draft pick the Bulls used for B.J. Armstrong.No. 9. 1978. Reggie Theus. One of the best picks in franchise history. The high scoring Theus went on to make two All-Star teams with the Bulls and was runner up for Rookie of the Year. The colorful Theus became one of the team’s most popular players, a frequent participant in Chicago nightlife who liked near Rush Street downtown and was often known as Rush Street Reggie. He averaged 23.8 in the 1982-83 season. But he had a run-in with coach Kevin Loughery, was benched in the 1983-84 season and then as the Bulls looked to lose in an attempt to draft Akeem Olajuwon he was traded to Kansas City for Steve Johnson. After six seasons with the Bulls, he played seven more NBA season for four teams and averaged 18.5 points for his career.The contents of this page have not been reviewed or endorsed by the Chicago Bulls. All opinions expressed by Sam Smith are solely his own and do not reflect the opinions of the Chicago Bulls or its Basketball Operations staff, parent company, partners, or sponsors. His sources are not known to the Bulls and he has no special access to information beyond the access and privileges that go along with being an NBA accredited member of the media.

Joining James on the NBA All-Defensive First Team are forward Serge Ibaka of the Oklahoma City Thunder (47 points), guards Chris Paul of the Los Angeles Clippers (35 points) and Tony Allen of the Memphis Grizzlies (33 points), and center Dwight Howard of the Orlando Magic (41 points). Ibaka and Allen earn First Team honors for the first time; Allen was an NBA All-Defensive Second Team selection last season.James led the Heat to a 46-20 mark and the No. 2 seed in the Eastern Conference Playoffs. He paced the Heat in steals (1.9 spg) and defensive rebounds (6.4 drpg), and tied for the team lead in rebounds (7.9 rpg). With James leading the effort, Miami’s defense tied for fourth in opponent scoring (91.3 ppg), and ranked third in forced turnovers (16.6) and fifth in opponent field goal percentage (.434).Ibaka paced the league in blocks (3.65 bpg) while Paul led in steals (2.53 spg). Howard was the league’s leading rebounder (14.5 rpg) as well as its top defensive rebounder (10.8 drpg). The Grizzlies allowed 96.0 points per 100 possessions with Allen on the court compared to 101.7 points per 100 possessions with him off.The NBA All-Defensive Second Team consists of guards Rajon Rondo of the Boston Celtics and Kobe Bryant of the Los Angeles Lakers, center Tyson Chandler of the New York Knicks, and forwards Luol Deng of the Chicago Bulls and Kevin Garnett of the Boston Celtics. The voting panel consisted of the NBA’s 30 head coaches, who were asked to select NBA All-Defensive First and Second Teams by position. Coaches were not permitted to vote for players from their own team.  Two points were awarded for a First Team vote and one point was awarded for a Second Team vote.


