AdvertisementSupported by76ers 145, Nets 123 | Series tied, 1-1By Kelly WhitesideAfter the Philadelphia 76ers were booed off their home court in the opener of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series, Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson had a feeling that they would punch back hard in Game 2.“We expect a haymaker,” Atkinson said. “They’re too good, too well-coached. How are we going to react to it?” Atkinson said. As it turned out, not very well.Propelled by a 51-point third quarter that tied an N.B.A. playoff record set by the Los Angeles Lakers back in 1962, the 76ers flattened the Nets, 145-123, on Monday night to even their series at a game apiece. The 145 points by the Sixers also set a playoff franchise record; likewise it was the most points the Nets have allowed in a playoff game.It was that kind of night.The Nets had looked strong early in the game, trailing by just a point at halftime — 65-64 — but then came the 51-point onslaught in the third quarter. “I thought we did a good job holding the fort in the first half,” Atkinson said. “The third quarter was the story of the game.”Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown said he thought the 76ers’ defense was the difference in the game, although the final score would suggest otherwise. Still, he cited guard Ben Simmons’s play against Nets star D’Angelo Russell, who was held scoreless in the second half.Simmons finished with 18 points, 10 rebounds and 12 assists after struggling in Game 1. Meanwhile, Joel Embiid had 23 points and 10 points for the Sixers after being limited to 24 minutes in Game 1.In Game 2, he looked more comfortable, bullying Nets center Jarrett Allen with his big body and sharp elbows, though one of those elbows led to him being charged with a flagrant foul.In any case, there was no booing by the Philadelphia fans on Monday. By the fourth quarter, with the game in hand for their team, the stands began to empty. With the series now tied at 1-1, the 76ers head to Brooklyn for games on Thursday and Saturday. And they would seem to have the momentum.Indeed, with their dominating win on Monday, the 76ers distanced themselves from their playoff-opening flop and looked more like a team with the East’s most talented starting lineup — Embiid, Simmons, Jimmy Butler, Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick.Philadelphia also distanced itself from the criticism that erupted when 76ers center Amir Johnson was caught by TV cameras scrolling through his phone late in the fourth quarter of Game 1 with his team trailing. Johnson turned to Embiid on the bench and showed him the message on his phone. Johnson was subsequently fined for “conduct detrimental to the team” and he apologized in a statement.Simmons also faced criticism after the series opener for his comments about the boos that filled Wells Fargo Center as the Nets pulled away. “If you’re going to boo, then stay on that side,” Simmons said. “That’s how I feel. If you’re a Sixers fan and you’re going to boo, stay on that side.”On Monday, those boos were replaced by cheers. And by a lot of Sixers baskets.And for the Nets, it was a humbling experience. Certainly, the third quarter was. “We can’t have another third quarter like we did,” Allen said. “We just let it blow open.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Joel Embiid is not playing for the Philadelphia 76ers on Thursday night in Game 3 against the Brooklyn Nets because of a sore left knee.Embiid warmed up before the game but the 76ers announced shortly before the start that the All-Star center wouldn't be available. Greg Monroe was listed as their starter.Embiid was troubled by the knee late in the regular season and was listed as doubtful for Game 1 of the series. But he played in both games in Philadelphia, collecting a pair of double-doubles.The series is tied 1-1.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressD’Angelo Russell flashed some postseason magic, playing like the All-Star leader the Nets needed with 26 points, and Caris LeVert scored 23, leading the visiting Nets to a 111-102 victory on Saturday over the Philadelphia 76ers in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.Jimmy Butler scored 36 points and saved the third-seeded Sixers, favored by many to at least reach the East semifinals, from losing by 25. Joel Embiid slogged his way through 24 minutes on a troubled left knee that cost him much of the final month of the regular season and managed 22 points and 15 rebounds. Ben Simmons came up small against Russell, his high school teammate, who scored 19 second-half points.Russell, LeVert and Spencer Dinwiddie gave the Sixers fits off the dribble and buried open looks from 3-point range, and a team that got hot late and just made the playoffs suddenly has the upper hand on the road over a 51-win team stocked with stars.“I think earlier in the season, especially when we were struggling, we’d lose games like that,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said.With Philadelphia behind by 16 late in the fourth quarter, Amir Johnson was caught by television cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone. Johnson, who was inactive for the game, showed Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid the device into a pocket of his warm-up pants.“I just looked down because he said his daughter was extremely sick and he was checking on her,” Embiid said.Johnson issued an apology after the game, and the Sixers fined him an unspecified amount. It was a fitting episode in a game that the Sixers seemed to have phoned in.Russell hit a string of jumpers in the third quarter, never letting the Sixers seriously chip away at the lead. LeVert’s third 3-pointer in the fourth made it a 16-point game, and there was no looking back for one of the biggest wins since the sixth-seeded Nets moved to Brooklyn.Dinwiddie and DeMarre Carroll made consecutive 3-pointers during a 12-0 first-half run. LeVert hit two straight 3s for a 14-point lead, and the Sixers were soundly booed off the court.“We all got to do a better job,” Embiid said. “Us. The fans. We have to bring the fun.”WARRIORS 121, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 38 points and made eight 3-pointers, reaching the highest total in postseason history, and top-seeded Golden State began its quest for a three-peat by winning at home against Los Angeles on a night when tempers flared.Kevin Durant and Patrick Beverley were ejected with 4 minutes 41 seconds to go, 19 seconds after they received double technicals when Durant stripped Beverley and the Clippers guard fell into the scorer’s table.They both became enraged again, and the official Ed Malloy immediately sent them both to the locker room. Durant high-fived fans as he left.Curry was 8 for 12 from beyond the arc, passing Ray Allen (385) for career postseason 3-pointers with 386.MAGIC 104, RAPTORS 101 D. J. Augustin scored 25 points, including the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 3.5 seconds left, and seventh-seeded Orlando won at second-seeded Toronto in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round series.Kawhi Leonard, who led the Raptors with 25 points, got a final shot but missed the rim with his 3-point attempt from the top. The Raptors are now 2-14 in playoff series openers.WALTON TO COACH KINGS One day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers, Luke Walton reached an agreement on a four-year deal to coach the Sacramento Kings, according to a person familiar with the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Lakers’ president this week in part because he did not want to go through with firing Walton, as had been expected around the N.B.A. for weeks. On Friday, Walton and the Lakers mutually agreed to part ways with two seasons left on his contract — with Walton knowing that the Kings, after firing Coach Dave Joerger on Thursday, were eager to hire him.The Lakers have the former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and the Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams at their top of their list to succeed Walton. Lue coached the Lakers’ LeBron James for two and a half seasons in Cleveland.(MARC STEIN)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — The Philadelphia 76ers are listing Joel Embiid as doubtful for Game 4 of their first-round series against the Brooklyn Nets.Embiid has been bothered by a sore left knee, but was able to play in the first two games of the series. He warmed up before Game 3 on Thursday night before it was decided that he couldn't play.Embiid worked out Friday at the 76ers' practice in New York but coach Brett Brown said he didn't know and didn't have a gut feeling about whether his All-Star center would be able to go Saturday afternoon.The 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory without Embiid and lead the series 2-1. Greg Monroe started at center and had nine points and 13 rebounds.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe Philadelphia 76ers made a bold move in the early hours of Wednesday morning to try to seize control of the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference by trading for Tobias Harris, the Los Angeles Clippers’ dynamic forward.In his second trade this season for a player who can become a free agent in July, Philadelphia General Manager Elton Brand surrendered two future first-round picks and two second-round picks in a six-player deal. The clear headliner, though, is Harris, who will join Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, J.J. Redick and Jimmy Butler, November’s acquisition, in what threatens to be the league’s most potent starting lineup outside of Golden State.The cost for Philadelphia was significant. The Sixers gave up their first-round pick in 2020 and an unprotected first-round pick in 2021, which they have from the Miami Heat, along with Wilson Chandler, Mike Muscala and Landry Shamet, a rookie guard. In return, Philadelphia will receive Harris, Boban Marjanovic and Mike Scott.“We are in a unique position to contend now, and we think this trade positions us well for the postseason,” Brand said in a statement.Philadelphia entered Wednesday’s play as the East’s No. 5 seed at 34-20, six games behind Milwaukee (39-13). The Sixers’ twofold challenge now will be establishing a chemistry among its new five-man core in the 28 games left before the playoffs and then re-signing Harris and Butler this summer after making two of this season’s biggest trades to get them.Harris emerged as an All-Star contender for the Clippers this season by averaging 20.9 points and 7.9 rebounds per game. His move to Philadelphia gives the Sixers another much-needed shooter (.496 from the field and .434 from 3-point range) alongside Redick.In making this trade, the Clippers ultimately decided that the draft picks Philadelphia offered were too valuable to pass up as they prepare for a big summer in which they are widely considered to be the league’s strongest threat to lure Kawhi Leonard away from the Toronto Raptors in free agency.The Clippers, at 30-25, have been one of this season’s surprise teams and sit at No. 8 in the Western Conference. But earlier this week, they also were named as one of four teams that Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans is willing to sign with long-term. This deal adds two more potentially enticing trade chips for the Clippers to offer the Pelicans for Davis — who has requested a trade — or to use in pursuit of other elite players.With Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline approaching, teams across the league, especially Philadelphia’s top rivals in the East, are running out of time to make their own moves to try to keep pace.The Boston Celtics, according to numerous reports, have been urging the Pelicans not to trade Davis until after the season, since league rules prevent Boston from trading for Davis while both he and Celtics guard Kyrie Irving are playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. The Toronto Raptors, meanwhile, have reportedly expressed trade interest in the very available Memphis Grizzlies duo of Marc Gasol and Mike Conley.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellSometime in the third quarter, as the Philadelphia 76ers rained down 3-pointers like mortar shots and Ben Simmons, a giant point guard possessed of preternatural passing ability and a bricklayer’s touch, carved through the Nets, a thought occurred:This was not the playoff homecoming of the Nets’ dreams.The Nets tried but never really contended Thursday night. The men from Philadelphia simply had too much talent and too many big bodies on their way to a 2-1 first-round series lead, and that was a shame. Saddled with the worst attendance in the N.B.A. this season, Barclays Center in Brooklyn was packed to the gills with fans waving towels and hooting and yelling. The joint was packed and joyfully rocking.The Nets are a pretty good pro hoops team in a city where terrible often rules the roost. Their coach, Kenny Atkinson, a likable and intelligent basketball lifer, took over a team that was expected to dwell in the cellar and won more games, 42, than it lost, 40, this season.That was in contrast to the disaster masquerading as a basketball team at Madison Square Garden, where the Knicks’ management team crafted a grotesquely bad team that finished 17-65. (Losing no longer impresses because the Knicks have posted losing records in 15 of the last 18 years.) In a sign that God may have a strange sense of humor, those same Knicks are widely rumored to be a favorite to gain the services of the brilliant forward Kevin Durant, who can become a free agent this summer.But enough about that other New York team.After falling into a deep ditch under previous management, the Brooklyn Nets have executed a slow, steady rebuild, instilling discipline and a sense of Nets basketball, which is to say a fluid, slashing style that relies on small forwards and guards bolstered by lean, swift centers who block shots and rebound and run. Their general manager, Sean Marks, a former San Antonio Spurs assistant and executive, has picked up talented role players much as a fishmonger sorts through a barrel and plucks out tasty sea bass.The Nets have a fine quartet of guards and small forwards, D’Angelo Russell and Spencer Dinwiddie, Joe Harris and Caris LeVert, creative players all, who can probe and find seams in defenses and stroke jump shots.So this game on Thursday offered a chance to draw the measure of a Nets team rising more quickly than expected and of a Sixers team that hopes to compete for a championship. On that last point I walked away nursing doubts.The Sixers for six years were an experimental laboratory, their former general manager Sam Hinkie occupying a reputational land between supposed genius and madman. They lost intentionally and insistently, and accumulated top draft picks, not the least the 6-foot-10 point guard Simmons and the splendidly talented big man Joel Embiid. Sixers ownership eventually discarded Hinkie. But that team now is expected to contend, and the current general manager made a series of trades toward that end this season.Yet a week into playoff season, the engine of that 76ers machine is coughing. Embiid has come up with a chronically sore knee. That is a problem for any athlete, much less a 7-foot, 270-pound center. The assumption Thursday night was that he would play, an impression reinforced when Embiid took the court an hour before the game and shot around. He shot fadeaways and spun like a dervish and put up graceful hook shots.Then minutes before tipoff, the 76ers’ coaches shook their heads. Nope, his knee was too sore. Embiid was sitting. That left the big man in a bad mood. Moments before the tip, as teammates walked over to dap him up and slap his back, Embiid could barely look at them or the court.Simmons is no less talented, and perhaps more baffling. He is a brilliant athlete with stunning vision and dribbling ability. When he breaks swiftly into the open court, his passing takes on a sleight-of-hand quality, so quick that you notice the ball only as it lands in the hands of a teammate.Alas, his shooting edges toward disastrous, and his confidence in it is sodden. Rather than put his hand under the ball, he puts it off to the side, his left elbow sticking out like a chicken wing. He practices his shooting before games with often unsightly results. On Thursday evening, he stood in the corner and took pass after pass from an assistant coach and shot and shot. He made, by my count, five baskets in 15 attempts. Then he took 3-point shots from the shoulder of the key, going 1 for 6.You wanted to cover your eyes and suggest that maybe he should stick to layups. Yet by shooting layups and hook shots and dunks, he finished the game with 31 points and 9 assists.He is the best fundamentally unsound player in the N.B.A. And you wonder how this still unformed 22-year-old star and a gimpy-knee center can stumble into the N.B.A. finals.In a strange way, on this night, Embiid’s absence liberated his teammates. They shot 40 percent from 3-point range to the Nets’ 20 percent, and they outrebounded them, too.If the 76ers have a playoff advantage, it may reside with their veteran talent, in particular Tobias Harris, Jimmy Butler and J.J. Redick. During a Nets run late in the third quarter, Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown called a timeout and drew up a play. Then you saw Redick stand up and start talking and pointing. Then Butler leaned in and interjected. Brown fell silent, then nodded in agreement. Fine, he said, we’ll run it differently.As they walked out onto the court after the timeout, Butler and Redick kept talking, resembling two professors discussing a knotty physics problem. “That was pros talking to pros,” Brown said later.The Nets are a young crew, not unduly burdened by egos and attitude. But they are not yet at a pros-talking-to-pros level. They are a promising troupe still in search of a leading man.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballThe rare N.B.A. star willing to lean into his role as a villain, Butler, briefly back in the city he scorned, is ready to absorb fans’ anger.By Marc SteinJimmy Butler knows what’s coming on Saturday night in Minneapolis. He understands, relishes and even encourages the looming prospect of the chilliest welcome any visiting N.B.A. player is bound to receive this season.“They’re going to boo me,” Butler said of the Minnesota fans who watched him force his way out of town via a trade to the Philadelphia 76ers in November — months after Butler led the woebegone Timberwolves to their first playoff berth in 14 seasons.“I would boo me, too. I’m not going to lie to you.”Now a key member of what is widely regarded as the most potent starting lineup on the N.B.A. map outside of Golden State, Butler will be back at Target Center for the first time since the trade turmoil that captivated the league for the first two months of the season.Butler insisted he was unfazed by what awaited him, and went on to suggest that a number of his Philadelphia colleagues, as well as some longtime friends who plan to be in attendance, will partake in the inevitable hostilities.“I might actually join in on the boos,” Butler said.Those who have spent any time around the rugged swingman surely don’t doubt it. At a time when N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver openly frets about player happiness — and when standouts such as Boston’s Kyrie Irving and Golden State’s Kevin Durant routinely rail against the approach of some of the news media — Butler is the rare star who savors the game’s edgy side and has embraced his portrayal as a villain.“I love it,” Butler said in a phone interview, repeating the phrase three times — including once with a profanity for emphasis. “Who wants to be loved all the time?“It’s O.K. It’s fine. I don’t need everybody to like me. I know who I am. I can’t say that enough. I know what I’m about. I know where my heart is. People will say, ‘He’s this way, or he’s that way,’ but nobody knows except for the people around me every day. Ask them and they’ll tell you differently.”Elton Brand, the 76ers’ general manager, certainly falls within that category, describing Butler as “a caring person” who has quickly endeared himself “not only to his teammates but to our whole business operations staff and in the community.”As a first-year general manager, Brand had his own reservations before going through with the first major move of his tenure, having watched chaos engulf the Timberwolves from afar — with no shortage of the noise coming from Butler himself after news leaked of the mid-September trade request he made in private.But when Brand did his research, consulting former coaches and executives who had worked with Butler, along with former players he knew well who had firsthand knowledge, such as Nazr Mohammed and Mike Dunleavy Jr., he received little in the way of dissenting feedback.“Even with the story that was reported, that wasn’t a big deal,” Brand said, referring to an ESPN report in January that asserted Butler “aggressively challenged” Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown. “He didn’t curse. He wasn’t loud. It was his reputation following him.”Butler, 29, admitted in a recent interview with Yahoo Sports’s Chris Haynes that he is a “confrontational” teammate, but that he is also trying to be more selective in showing his blunt nature as he gets older. It should be noted that, as Brand found, Butler has also been a largely popular teammate in his stints with the Chicago Bulls and Team U.S.A. — and, frankly, with numerous Timberwolves apart from the All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.Butler took a hit in some precincts after informing the since-fired coach with whom he’s so closely associated — Tom Thibodeau — that he was no longer interested in trying to nurture Towns and Andrew Wiggins and wanted out of Minnesota. One example of the damage: Butler is one of the top 12 players in the Eastern Conference, but East coaches snubbed him as a reserve for the All-Star Game in February.Yet Butler plays on, insisting he would “do nothing over” in Minnesota and reveling in the knowledge that for the first time in his career, he’s on a team capable of getting to the N.B.A. finals.“I will tell you that we’ve got a lot of talent,” Butler said.The Sixers haven’t established the required consistency to earn the label of East favorites, going 11-6 since the All-Star break with middling placement in both offensive (18th) and defensive (12th) efficiency in that span. Butler, though, is doing what he can to make it work, sacrificing in a manner that would seem to invalidate some of the criticism.Philadelphia followed its trade for Butler on Nov. 12 by acquiring Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers on Feb. 6, giving Brown two All-Star-caliber players to team with the dynamic duo of Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons and the shooter extraordinaire J.J. Redick. In the first 20 games since, when those five players share the floor, Butler has scaled back more than anyone, taking fewer shots (46) than the other four — with Embiid by far in the lead (95 shots).Of course, in fourth quarters, Butler has emerged as the most reliable offensive option of the quintet, shooting 12 for 18 when all five play together, highlighted by last week’s game-winning jumper against Boston after the Celtics had won six of the teams’ seven previous meetings. The natural drop in Butler’s per-game averages this season, playing for such a loaded team, tends to overshadow the fact that he still ranks 16th in the league in a category (Real Plus-Minus) strongly associated with team success.“He’s a special talent at closing and winning games — and not just offensively,” Brand said. “He’s just a winner.”An indication of Butler’s true standing in the game will come July 1, when he becomes an unrestricted free agent for the first time. Brand has said repeatedly that he hopes to keep Philadelphia’s new core four together, but Butler is expected to attract serious interest from both Los Angeles teams as well as the Nets. The Clippers’ special adviser Jerry West, to name one prominent fan, is said to be a longtime admirer of Butler’s two-way impact.Not that Butler is prepared to discuss much about the future. He brushed off free-agency talk in our conversation and claimed that he didn’t even know Minnesota was on this week’s calendar until I told him.He stuck mostly to peripheral subjects. Those include Butler’s devotion to playing dominoes and Uno, his friendship with “the best soccer player in the world” — Paris St.-Germain’s Brazilian star Neymar — and the trusty American football he travels around with. Butler said he plans to toss the football with other 76ers with greater regularity during the playoffs.“I’m telling you — it takes away some of that pressure,” Butler said.Thibodeau still lives in Minneapolis in the wake of his Jan. 6 firing, but politely declined to comment about Butler’s visit. Butler, for his part, continues to refer to Thibodeau as “my guy.” He said they maintained regular contact.Although Butler remains unwilling to dig deeply into the reasons he pushed so hard for an exit so soon after the dramatic impact he had in his lone full season with the Wolves, give him this: He is prepared to take whatever pent-up frustration has been stored up for him in the Twin Cities.Rather than ask for forgiveness from the locals, or even civility, Butler said: “I did what I did. I’m cool with it. I’m in a good place.”He has only one request for the basketball public: Pick someone else to win the East besides the up-and-down Sixers.“Don’t pick us,” Butler said. “I hope people say we’re going to lose in the first round. I don’t want anybody to think we’re that good because I think it makes us play a little bit harder.”Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Los Angeles Lakers and coach Luke Walton mutually parted ways on Friday, general manager Rob Pelinka announced in a statement.Walton's status had been tenuous, even before Magic Johnson resigned as president of basketball operations on Tuesday. Lakers owner Jeanie Buss was reportedly ready to OK a departure after previously being fully supportive of Walton."We would like to thank Luke for his dedicated service over the last three years," Pelinka said in a statement. "We wish Luke and his family the best of luck moving forward."Walton compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three seasons."I want to thank Jeanie Buss and the Buss family for giving me the opportunity to coach the Lakers," Walton said in a statement. "This franchise and the city will always be special to me and my family."The Lakers went 37-45 this season in a disappointing first campaign of the LeBron James era.Los Angeles was 20-14 when James suffered a groin injury during a Christmas Day win over the Golden State Warriors and the team's fortunes plummeted from there.Walton may not be unemployed for a long period as the Sacramento Kings are reportedly interested in interviewing him for their opening.The Kings went 39-43 this season and fired coach Dave Joerger. They have an impressive young group led by point guard De'Aaron Fox, shooting guard Buddy Hield and power forward Marvin Bagley III.Among the candidates for the Lakers' post is former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and Philadelphia 76ers assistant coach Monty Williams.Lue coached James for parts of three seasons in Cleveland -- including the franchise's 2016 NBA Finals title -- while Williams coached the New Orleans Pelicans for five seasons.Williams also is reported a candidate for the Sacramento job.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Dwyane Wade was hurting, sitting on the training table trying to get enough treatment to get him on the floor one last time.A couple of hours later, he looked like a guy capable of playing well beyond the final night of his career.Wade had 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in his last NBA game, which the Brooklyn Nets won by beating the Miami Heat 113-94 on Wednesday night to finish 42-40 and clinch the No. 6 seed in the Eastern Conference.With close friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony leading the cheers from their courtside seats, Wade had his fifth career triple-double in three quarters. He fittingly secured it with a pass to Udonis Haslem, his teammate of 15 years who plays sparingly now and made his only start of the season."I was like, I don't know why, but everybody feels like now you've got to go out and score 60 in your last game because Kobe did it," said Wade, wearing a sparkling gold jacket and gold sneakers. "So hopefully I took the bar all the way back down and say let's go get a triple-double, that's easier."A night after scoring 30 points in his final game in Miami, Wade showed one more time that he's walking away with his skills intact.He played 36 minutes, dribbling out the shot clock the final time he had the ball before checking out with 10 seconds remaining. Then it was time for a lengthy postgame celebration on the court with teammates and friends."The man went out with a triple-double. Don't let that go unnoticed. He had a triple-double," All-Star D'Angelo Russell said. "He is a guy that paved the way for a lot of us. He's been with that franchise for that long period of time. He's Mr. Miami."Russell had 21 points on seven 3-pointers for the Nets, who will face the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers beginning this weekend in their first postseason appearance since 2015, one that seemed unlikely when they were 8-18 in December. But they went 34-22 from there for their first winning record since going 44-38 in 2013-14 — when they were knocked out by Wade's Heat in the second round."Special night," Nets coach Kenny Atkinson said. "Pretty amazing season so far."The game mattered only to the Nets, who quickly ended any fears of finishing seventh and having to face the Toronto Raptors in the first round.But that was secondary to a last chance to celebrate Wade, the three-time NBA champion who was ending his 16th and final NBA season.He was loudly cheered from the moment he emerged alone from the tunnel for pregame layups. Fans — egged on at one point by Paul and Anthony — chanted "We want Wade! We want Wade!" when he was on the bench, even though the 37-year-old guard had played a season-high 35 minutes Tuesday and coach Erik Spoelstra warned before the game that it probably wouldn't be that way again.But there was no keeping Wade down for long. It took him a little bit to get going, as Jarrett Allen added Wade to the list of stars whose shots he's blocked this season — a list that included James."I loved seeing CP and Melo over there getting the crowd going to get Dwyane back in there and Dwyane comes from the old-school NBA," Spoelstra said. "That was pre-load management, so we were not load managing him tonight and I was not talking to my sports scientist whether he could go, even though I walked in and saw him on that training table an hour before the game and he did not look fit to go, at all. But he's cut from a different cloth."The Heat hoped the final game would matter, but the Nets and Orlando Magic had clinched spots over the weekend to leave only one spot left coming into the last week. Miami was eliminated from contention for it despite its victory Tuesday."For me, I'm happy with this season," Wade said. "Unfortunately for our organization and our team, we weren't able to put ourselves in a position to win enough games to be in the playoffs, but for what I wanted for this season, I'm happy to say that I completed that."TIP-INSHeat: Haslem finished with 12 points and 11 rebounds. ... Wade passed Elgin Baylor (23,149 points) to move into 29th place on the NBA's career list. He finished with 23,165.Nets: Starters Joe Harris (toe) and DeMarre Carroll (right wrist) sat out, though Atkinson said they would be ready for the playoff opener. ... Shabazz Napier scored 20 points off the bench.THE LAST JERSEYWade has been exchanging jerseys with players after games this season, but there was one missing. Anthony, who helped persuade Wade to return this season, didn't play long this season before parting ways with Houston. So Wade gave his final one to him."I didn't get an opportunity to play against Melo this year and exchange jerseys with him," Wade said. "That was a missing piece out of this whole season, so everything worked out great for him being here, for me having an opportunity to give him my jersey."___UP NEXTHeat: The offseason.Nets: A first-round playoff matchup against the Philadelphia 76ers.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy Field Level MediaKyle Lowry scored a game-high 22 points and hit the 3-pointer with 7 minutes 3 seconds remaining that gave the Toronto Raptors the lead for good Saturday night in a 104-99 win over the Knicks at Madison Square Garden.Kevin Knox scored 20 points, and DeAndre Jordan posted a double-double with 10 points and 18 rebounds for the Knicks, who tied a franchise record by losing their 16th straight game.Serge Ibaka had a double-double (15 points and 13 rebounds) for the Raptors, who have the second-best record in the Eastern Conference (41-16) and have won four consecutive games. Danny Green scored 14 points and sank three straight 3-pointers in the fourth for Toronto. Norman Powell also had 14 points, and Kawhi Leonard (11) and Pascal Siakam (10) also scored in double figures.Marc Gasol, playing his first game for the Raptors since he was acquired from the Memphis Grizzlies on Thursday, scored 7 points and pulled down 6 rebounds in 19 minutes. He came off the bench for the first time since his rookie season in 2008-9.Mitchell Robinson scored 15 points, Kadeem Allen added 14 points and Dennis Smith Jr. chipped in with 13 points and 6 assists for the Knicks, who have the worst record in the N.B.A. (10-45) and have dropped 24 of 25 and 29 of their last 31 games.Despite the vast difference in fortunes, the Knicks gave the Raptors all they could handle.After Leonard opened the game with a 3-pointer, the Knicks scored the next 14 points. They also tied the game three times early in the fourth quarter before Robinson’s three-point play gave them an 86-85 lead — their first since a 38-36 advantage with 3:48 left in the second quarter.Lowry responded for the Raptors with his go-ahead 3-pointer. After Jordan missed two free throws, Green hit three 3-pointers during a 9-4 run — interrupted only by two free throws and a layup from Allen — to give Toronto a 97-90 lead with 3:28 left.The Knicks closed to 99-96 on Knox’s 3-pointer with 1:59 left. They had two chances to make it a 1-point game, but Mario Hezonja and Smith each missed jumpers, and the Raptors then made five of their final six free throws.SUPERLATIVES APLENTY The Oklahoma City-Houston game had two 40-point scorers, a tied triple-double record, and a winning rally from a 26-point deficit.Paul George scored 45 points, Russell Westbrook matched the league record with his ninth straight triple-double, and the visiting Thunder overcame the large deficit to beat the Rockets.Westbrook had 21 points, 11 assists and 12 rebounds to match the record streak set by Wilt Chamberlain in 1968. Westbrook has 22 triple-doubles this season and 126 over all.James Harden led Houston with 42 points, reaching 30 points for the 29th straight game — two shy of Chamberlain for the second-longest streak in N.B.A. history, but far behind Chamberlain’s record run of 65 games.(AP)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe Philadelphia 76ers made a bold move in the early hours of Wednesday morning to try to seize control of the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference by trading for Tobias Harris, the Los Angeles Clippers’ dynamic forward.In his second trade this season for a player who can become a free agent in July, Philadelphia General Manager Elton Brand surrendered two future first-round picks and two second-round picks in a six-player deal. The clear headliner, though, is Harris, who will join Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, J.J. Redick and Jimmy Butler, November’s acquisition, in what threatens to be the league’s most potent starting lineup outside of Golden State.The cost for Philadelphia was significant. The Sixers gave up their first-round pick in 2020 and an unprotected first-round pick in 2021, which they have from the Miami Heat, along with Wilson Chandler, Mike Muscala and Landry Shamet, a rookie guard. In return, Philadelphia will receive Harris, Boban Marjanovic and Mike Scott.“We are in a unique position to contend now, and we think this trade positions us well for the postseason,” Brand said in a statement.Philadelphia entered Wednesday’s play as the East’s No. 5 seed at 34-20, six games behind Milwaukee (39-13). The Sixers’ twofold challenge now will be establishing a chemistry among its new five-man core in the 28 games left before the playoffs and then re-signing Harris and Butler this summer after making two of this season’s biggest trades to get them.Harris emerged as an All-Star contender for the Clippers this season by averaging 20.9 points and 7.9 rebounds per game. His move to Philadelphia gives the Sixers another much-needed shooter (.496 from the field and .434 from 3-point range) alongside Redick.In making this trade, the Clippers ultimately decided that the draft picks Philadelphia offered were too valuable to pass up as they prepare for a big summer in which they are widely considered to be the league’s strongest threat to lure Kawhi Leonard away from the Toronto Raptors in free agency.The Clippers, at 30-25, have been one of this season’s surprise teams and sit at No. 8 in the Western Conference. But earlier this week, they also were named as one of four teams that Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans is willing to sign with long-term. This deal adds two more potentially enticing trade chips for the Clippers to offer the Pelicans for Davis — who has requested a trade — or to use in pursuit of other elite players.With Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline approaching, teams across the league, especially Philadelphia’s top rivals in the East, are running out of time to make their own moves to try to keep pace.The Boston Celtics, according to numerous reports, have been urging the Pelicans not to trade Davis until after the season, since league rules prevent Boston from trading for Davis while both he and Celtics guard Kyrie Irving are playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. The Toronto Raptors, meanwhile, have reportedly expressed trade interest in the very available Memphis Grizzlies duo of Marc Gasol and Mike Conley.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGolden State guard Stephen Curry left the Warriors' Tuesday game against the New Orleans Pelicans with a sprained right foot, but the ailment isn't expected to affect his readiness for the NBA playoffs.Curry sustained the non-contact injury when he rolled his foot and ankle while dribbling near the 3-point arc. He immediately fell and lost control of the ball.The team already was short-handed without key contributors such as Kevin Durant (flu-like symptoms), Klay Thompson (right knee soreness), Andre Iguodala (toe) and Andrew Bogut (rest), yet Golden State beat New Orleans 112-103.Warriors coach Steve Kerr was relatively tight-lipped about the injury after the game -- even labeling it an ankle issue when the team had earlier reported it as a sprained foot -- but Golden State's in-game actions spoke louder than his words.After going to the locker room for an examination, Curry returned to the game briefly, an indication the Warriors don't believe the injury is serious.In fact, it was Curry who waved himself off after hitting a shot, clearly not willing to risk further damage with the playoff opener potentially as close as four days away. He finished with five points in nine minutes of action."We think he's going to be fine. He tweaked it," Kerr told reporters afterward.The coach then was asked if the Warriors' Wednesday duel with the Toronto Raptors for the second-best record in the NBA played any role in Curry re-entering the game."We would like to win every game," Kerr responded. "Whatever happens with the seedings, we prioritize our health."Golden State already had secured the top seed in the Western Conference playoffs.In 2017, Curry also turned his right ankle on the Pelicans' home court. He missed almost a month because of that injury.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Tech standout Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, announced Thursday he will forgo his last two seasons in Lubbock and declare for the 2019 NBA Draft.The 6-foot-5, 195-pound guard made the announcement during a press conference in Lubbock, Texas.Culver helped lead the Red Raiders to a share of the Big 12 regular-season title and was effective in this year's NCAA Tournament, where Texas Tech fell to Virginia 85-77 in overtime in the national championship game.On the season, Culver averaged 18.5 points, 6.4 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game while the Red Raiders set a school record with 31 wins.--Also announcing his plans to declare for the draft was 18-year-old Russian Nikita Mikhailovskii, according to a report by ESPN.The 6-foot-8, 180-pound wing is trying to become the first Russian player drafted since 2013 when Sergey Karasev was chosen with the 19th pick by the Cleveland Cavaliers.Mikhailovskii spent the past season playing in the mostly Russian VTB United League and FIBA Europe Cup, averaging 7.8 points in 16.8 minutes while shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range in 45 games.--The Memphis Grizzlies hired two former general managers to their front office, adding Rich Cho as vice president of strategy and Glen Grunwald as senior adviser.Cho is a former GM of the Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers, and Grunwald was GM of the New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors.The Grizzlies demoted former GM Chris Wallace to a scouting role in a flurry of moves last week, including the firing of head coach J.B. Bickerstaff and the promotion of Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations.--Los Angeles Clippers assistant general manager Trent Redden reportedly is close to interviewing for a senior front-office role with the New Orleans Pelicans.The Clippers gave the Pelicans permission to discuss the position with Redden, ESPN reported, citing league sources.David Griffin, the Pelicans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, worked closely with Redden when they with the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 2016 NBA championship season. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski noted that Griffin is expected to be "aggressive" in pursuing Redden.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points and the Toronto Raptors closed their regular season with a 120-100 victory over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Tuesday night.Fred VanVleet scored 16 points, and Chris Boucher had a career-high 15 points and 13 rebounds off the bench for the Raptors, who finished the regular season at 58-24.Andrew Wiggins and Gorgui Dieng each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves, who played without All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.Toronto went on a 20-5 run over the final 5:16 of the second quarter and led 69-47 at halftime.Boucher scored 11 points in 10 minutes in the second quarter. Boucher's previous career best was the nine points he scored Dec. 28 against the Orlando Magic.The Timberwolves never got closer than 15 points in the second half, and the Raptors led by as many as 32 points in the final two periods.Towns did not play because of knee soreness. Timberwolves coach Ryan Saunders said Towns would travel with the team for Wednesday's season finale in Denver and be a game-time decision.The Raptors set a franchise record with their 26th road victory of the season.GOOD TIMINGThe Raptors were in Minneapolis on Monday night, allowing coach Nick Nurse and his staff to attend Monday night's NCAA title game. Nurse played against Virginia coach Tony Bennett when Nurse was at Northern Iowa and Bennett was at Wisconsin-Green Bay. "I think I held him to 29 points one time," Nurse joked.TIP-INSRaptors: G Kyle Lowry (rest), F/C Serge Ibaka (rest) and G Patrick McCaw (sprained right thumb) did not play. VanVleet started in place of Lowry. . Toronto reached 1,000 made 3-pointers in a season for the first time.Timberwolves: G Jerryd Bayless (right ankle contusion) and F Taj Gibson (strained left calf) did not play. They joined Towns and long-term absentees F Robert Covington (bone bruise on right knee), F Luol Deng (left Achilles soreness), G Derrick Rose (right elbow surgery) and G Jeff Teague (left foot inflammation) in missing the game. . Dieng made his first start since April 12, 2017. . Tyus Jones had his stretch of 129:18 without a turnover snapped.UP NEXTRaptors: Host either Brooklyn Nets or Orlando Magic in Eastern Conference playoffs.Timberwolves: At Denver Nuggets on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTORONTO — With the Maple Leafs buzzing and Scotiabank Arena rocking after Toronto tied it early in second period, the Boston Bruins needed a push from their dormant stars.David Pastrnak and Brad Marchand delivered.Pastrnak scored twice in quick succession, Marchand had a goal and two assists and the Bruins held off the Toronto Maple Leafs 6-4 on Wednesday night to tie the first-round series 2-2."It's not easy to win in this building," Pastrnak said. "A hell of a win."Game 5 is Friday night in Boston.Charlie McAvoy had a goal and an assist for Boston, Zdeno Chara and Joakim Nordstrom also scored and Tuukka Rask made 38 saves.At 42 years, 30 days, the 6-foot-9 Chara became the second-oldest defenseman in NHL history to score a playoff goal. Chris Chelios holds the record at 45 years, 86 days."If I contribute something offensively, it's always a plus," Chara said. "But my focus is always playing well defensively. I take a lot of pride in playing well defensively."Auston Matthews scored twice for Toronto. Zach Hyman and Travis Dermott also scored and Frederik Andersen stopped 25 shots."We had real good energy," Toronto coach Mike Babcock said. "I didn't think we had the kind of brain all that time that we wanted. Turned the puck over, two real big mistakes on the penalty kill. Just got in our own way a little bit."After the Maple Leafs overcame a 2-0 deficit to tie it early in the second period, Pastrnak put Boston back in front at 3:16 when he redirected a pass from Marchand on a 2-on-1. The Bruins then got a power play when Matthews went off for roughing, and Marchand whipped a backhand pass to a wide-open Pastrnak, who snapped the puck short-side on Andersen for his second goal in 1:35.Chara made it 5-2 at 5:39 of the third."He's a true professional. He's a great leader," Bruins coach Bruce Cassidy said. "Still a really solid hockey player. They're trying to find ways to expose him and he's trying to adapt to the new NHL and has. There's a reason why he's still playing and still effective. Not only is he hard, but he's smart. He's a very intelligent man and has been able to figure out a way to keep playing this game and be effective."Matthews scored on the power play with 8:08 left, and Dermott made it 5-4 through traffic with 6:33 remaining. Nordstrom scored into an empty net with two seconds to go."We did a lot of good things," Toronto center John Tavares said. "We generated a lot of chances, got a lot of pucks to the net. We didn't have our best start tonight, but we gave ourselves a good chance."NOTES: Boston was 2 for 2 on the power play. Toronto went 1 for 3. ... Canadian hip hop artist Drake and Toronto Raptors coach Nick Nurse attended the game.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTORONTO — Pascal Siakam had 23 points and 10 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard scored 22 points and the Toronto Raptors beat Miami 117-109 in overtime on Sunday, further denting the Heat's fading playoff hopes.Norman Powell matched his season high with 23 points, Danny Green scored seven of his 21 points in overtime and OG Anunoby had 12 as Toronto won its fourth straight over the Heat.Dwyane Wade scored 21 points and James Johnson had 18 for the Heat, who have lost a season-high four straight.Miami could have guaranteed a postseason berth by winning its final three games — the Heat host Philadelphia on Tuesday and close the regular season at Brooklyn the following day. Miami was in position to be eliminated later Sunday if Orlando defeated Boston and Brooklyn beat Indiana.Dion Waiters scored 17 points, Justise Winslow had 15 and Hassan Whiteside 14.With the score tied 103-103, Wade and Leonard each missed 3-pointers in the final 35 seconds of regulation. The Heat called timeout with 10 seconds left after grabbing Leonard's miss, but couldn't capitalize. James Johnson missed a potential winning jumper, and Bam Adebayo couldn't beat the buzzer with his layup.Green opened the extra session with a 3, then added a layup to put Toronto up five, the biggest margin for either team since the start of the fourth quarter. The Raptors outscored the Heat 16-6 in overtime.The crowd of 19,800 rose for a brief ovation when Wade checked in for the first time at 6:18 of the first. The 16-year veteran intends to retire at the end of the season.Wade scored five points in the opening quarter and Miami led 26-25 after one.Whiteside scored 10 points and the Heat made 10 of their first 12 shots in the second, opening a 49-36 lead. Toronto called its second timeout of the quarter before responding with a 10-0 run as Miami went scoreless for 4:17. Winslow stopped the drought with a 3 and the Heat led 57-50 at halftime.Leonard scored eight points in the third as Toronto closed the gap, but Miami took a 79-78 lead into the fourth.TIP-INSHeat: Bam Adebayo led the Heat with 13 rebounds. ...Miami signed F Yante Maten to a full contract. Maten had been on a two-way contract.Raptors: The Raptors didn't get any points from bench players in the first quarter. ... Before the opening tip, Green made a brief address at center court to thank fans for their support in the final home game of the regular season. The Raptors finished 32-9 at home. ... Toronto scored at least 110 points for the eighth straight game, matching a franchise record. The Raptors also did it Feb. 6 to 28, 2018.UP NEXTHeat: Host Philadelphia on Tuesday.Raptors: At Minnesota on Tuesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday. He compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.--The Lakers, meanwhile, received permission to discuss their opening for head coach with Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams, ESPN reported, citing league sources.The Lakers are focusing on Williams and former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue, and general manager Rob Pelinka plans to speak with each candidate in the near future, league sources told ESPN.After spending the previous two years in the San Antonio Spurs' front office following the death of his wife Ingrid in 2016, Williams got back into coaching as Brett Brown's top assistant with the 76ers.--The 76ers fined veteran center Amir Johnson an undisclosed amount for showing teammate Joel Embiid his cell phone on the bench late in a 111-102 loss to the Brooklyn Nets in Game 1 of their playoff series.TV cameras caught Johnson on the bench in the fourth quarter, when the 76ers were 16 points down and he was scrolling through his phone. After showing Embiid something on his phone, Johnson put it into the pocket of his warm-ups."I apologize for having my phone on the bench in today's game," Johnson said in a statement released hours after the game by the 76ers. "I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions. I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."--Milwaukee Bucks forward Nikola Mirotic is expected to return from a thumb injury to play in Game 1 of the first-round series against the Detroit Pistons on Sunday.Mirotic missed the final 11 games of the regular season after fracturing his left thumb during a March 19 game against the Los Angeles Lakers.Mirotic fully participated in Friday's practice and took part in Saturday's non-contact practice. He had his thumb taped during both workouts.--The Washington Wizards announced they will not make a qualifying offer to free agent forward Devin Robinson after he was apparently arrested late Friday."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend a qualifying offer to him for the 2019-20 season," it read.According to Washington Post reporter Candace Buckner, who covers the Wizards, Robinson was involved in an altercation with Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills at a nightclub.--Toronto Raptors forward OG Anunoby could be sidelined until the Eastern Conference finals, should the team make it that far, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.Anunoby underwent an emergency appendectomy on Thursday.The second-year player, who is a key reserve for the Raptors, scored 7.0 points per game this season with an average of 2.9 rebounds. He played in 67 games this season, starting six of them, a year after he started 62 games as a rookie from Indiana.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — The New York Knicks are turning to Patrick Ewing in hopes of lottery luck.Ewing, the prize when the Knicks won the first NBA draft lottery in 1985, will represent the team on stage when it attempts a turnaround by landing the No. 1 pick on May 14 in Chicago.The Knicks announced Saturday that the Georgetown coach would fill the role Dave DeBusschere had when the Knicks selected Ewing. He went on to a Hall of Fame career with the Knicks, who have been one of the NBA's least successful teams since he retired.They had the NBA's worst record this season at 17-65, matching the worst in franchise history, and have a 14% chance of winning the lottery.Knicks President Steve Mills says "we're proud to have one of the all-time Knicks greats sit on the dais on behalf of the team, the city and the fans."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPHOENIX — John MacLeod, the longtime NBA coach who led the Phoenix Suns to the 1976 NBA Finals, has died. He was 81.MacLeod's son, Matt, confirmed his father's death Sunday to The Associated Press. The elder MacLeod fought Alzheimer's disease for more than a decade.MacLeod is the winningest coach in Suns history, going 579-543 in the regular season from 1973-87. He also coached the Dallas Mavericks from 1987-89 and the New York Knicks in 1990-91, finishing his 18-year head coaching career with a 707-657 mark.MacLeod had his most success in Phoenix, capped by the 1975-76 "Sundarella Suns" run to the NBA Finals. The Suns lost to Boston in six games in the finals, with the Celtics' triple-overtime victory in Game 5 at Boston Garden regarded as one of the greatest games ever."His passion for the game was matched only by his endearing personality, humility and class, a man who was loved by everyone that had the pleasure of interacting with him," the Suns said in a statement. "Coach MacLeod was a winner in every sense and will be dearly missed by our entire Phoenix Suns family."His Phoenix teams made nine playoff appearances, also reaching the Western Conference finals in 1979 and 1984. He had a franchise- record 37 playoff victories, and was placed in the Phoenix Suns Ring of Honor in 2012.MacLeod also worked as an assistant with Phoenix, Denver and Golden State, ending his coaching career with the Warriors in 2006. He was a college head coach at Oklahoma from 1967-73 and Notre Dame from 1991-99, with son Matt a member of the Fighting Irish squad in his father's last two seasons. MacLeod starred at Providence High School in Clarksville, Indiana, and in college at Bellarmine.MacLeod also is survived by wife Carol and daughter Kathleen.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Tech standout Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, announced Thursday he will forgo his last two seasons in Lubbock and declare for the 2019 NBA Draft.The 6-foot-5, 195-pound guard made the announcement during a press conference in Lubbock, Texas.Culver helped lead the Red Raiders to a share of the Big 12 regular-season title and was effective in this year's NCAA Tournament, where Texas Tech fell to Virginia 85-77 in overtime in the national championship game.On the season, Culver averaged 18.5 points, 6.4 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game while the Red Raiders set a school record with 31 wins.--Also announcing his plans to declare for the draft was 18-year-old Russian Nikita Mikhailovskii, according to a report by ESPN.The 6-foot-8, 180-pound wing is trying to become the first Russian player drafted since 2013 when Sergey Karasev was chosen with the 19th pick by the Cleveland Cavaliers.Mikhailovskii spent the past season playing in the mostly Russian VTB United League and FIBA Europe Cup, averaging 7.8 points in 16.8 minutes while shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range in 45 games.--The Memphis Grizzlies hired two former general managers to their front office, adding Rich Cho as vice president of strategy and Glen Grunwald as senior adviser.Cho is a former GM of the Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers, and Grunwald was GM of the New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors.The Grizzlies demoted former GM Chris Wallace to a scouting role in a flurry of moves last week, including the firing of head coach J.B. Bickerstaff and the promotion of Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations.--Los Angeles Clippers assistant general manager Trent Redden reportedly is close to interviewing for a senior front-office role with the New Orleans Pelicans.The Clippers gave the Pelicans permission to discuss the position with Redden, ESPN reported, citing league sources.David Griffin, the Pelicans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, worked closely with Redden when they with the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 2016 NBA championship season. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski noted that Griffin is expected to be "aggressive" in pursuing Redden.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDURHAM, N.C. — Zion Williamson is leaving Duke after one high-flying season to enter the NBA draft.Widely projected as the top overall pick in the June draft, the AP national player of the year announced his decision Monday.The 6-foot-7, 285-pound Williamson captivated all of college basketball with his freakish, once-in-a-generation athleticism, his energy at both ends of the floor and his omnipresent charisma.The Atlantic Coast Conference player and rookie of the year averaged 22.6 points — tied for the league lead with teammate RJ Barrett — and 8.9 rebounds. Along the way, he became the face of college basketball this season, routinely coming up with at least one highlight-reel play or show-stopping dunk per game.His decision to turn pro came as no surprise. In fact, he spent the season greeting NBA chatter with a playful wink and a knowing nod.He said it would be "dope" to play on a hypothetical New York Knicks team with Kyrie Irving and Kevin Durant. Upon learning that LeBron James and Stephen Curry were talking about him during All-Star weekend, he responded that he's "hoping to be there competing against them next year."During his lone college season, he helped the Blue Devils earn the No. 1 ranking in the final AP Top 25 and the top overall seed in the NCAA Tournament. Duke was knocked out by Michigan State in the East Regional final.Now that he's headed to the NBA, one key subplot to follow is which sneaker company will land his endorsement.In one of the signature moments of the season, Williamson blew out his left Nike shoe — the PG 2.5, the signature shoe of Oklahoma City star Paul George — and sprained his right knee in the opening minute of what became a lopsided home loss to rival North Carolina.The impact was immediate — Nike's stock price took a hit the next day, and the shoe company sent a team of representatives to campus to investigate. When Williamson returned roughly three weeks later for the ACC Tournament, he wore a pair of modified size-15 Nikes from the signature line of Irving, a Boston Celtics All-Star and former one-and-done player at Duke.Williamson joins Cam Reddish and Barrett as classmates headed to the pros after one season. Point guard Tre Jones says he will return to school for his sophomore year.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersJayson Tatum buried a go-ahead 3-pointer with 50.8 seconds remaining Wednesday night, allowing the host Boston Celtics to overcome a late Indiana Pacers flurry and pull out a 99-91 victory in Game 2 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.With the fourth-seeded Celtics having successfully held serve on their home court to go up 2-0 in the best-of-seven set, the fifth-seeded Pacers will host Games 3 and 4 on Friday night and Sunday afternoon.Indiana blew a 12-point, fourth-quarter lead. However, the Pacers appeared primed to even the series when Wesley Matthews and Bojan Bogdanovic combined for three 3-pointers in a 70-second spurt, allowing Indiana to retake a 91-89 advantage with 2:16 to go.But the Pacers didn't score again, and the Celtics finally did when Tatum drilled his third 3-pointer of the game for a one-point lead in the final minute. The Celtics scored the game's final 10 points.Rockets 118, Jazz 98James Harden posted his third career postseason triple-double, and Houston recorded another rout of visiting Utah in Game 2 of a Western Conference first-round series.Harden totaled 32 points, 13 rebounds and 10 assists in the wire-to-wire victory. After Utah utilized an unorthodox defensive approach against Harden in the series opener, Harden exploded for 25 first-half points Wednesday on 8-of-15 shooting, including 5-of-9 accuracy on 3-point attempts.He finished 11 of 24 from the floor, 6 of 13 from long distance. Harden, however, did commit a game-high eight turnovers. The Rockets will take a 2-0 series lead to Salt Lake City for Game 3 on Saturday.Bucks 120, Pistons 99Giannis Antetokounmpo sparked the decisive run in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference first-round series, scoring Milwaukee's first seven points of the second half in a win over visiting Detroit.The top-seeded Bucks lead the best-of-seven series two games to none. Game 3 is scheduled for Saturday in Detroit, where the eighth-seeded Pistons will try to snap a 12-game postseason losing streak that dates back to 2008. That's tied for the second-longest postseason losing streak in NBA history, behind only the New York Knicks' 13 consecutive losses from 2001-12.Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points during a third quarter in which the Bucks outscored the Pistons 35-17. He also grabbed a team-high 12 rebounds.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.He secured his season high in points with a straightaway 3-pointer, his fifth of the game, early in the third quarter for 22 points. That was followed by a rare slam dunk that elicited howls from the crowd and a big smile across Nowitzki's face.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history then drained another jumper for 26 points and an 80-49 Dallas lead. He re-entered the game with three minutes left and hit two more buckets to go 11 of 31 from the floor. He finished with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 32 minutes.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points -- one off his career best -- with 26 coming in the fourth quarter, to get the Suns as close as 105-100 with 4:20 to play.Crawford, 39, became the oldest player ever to score 50-plus points in an NBA game. The old mark was held by Michael Jordan, who was 38 when he scored 51 for the Washington Wizards on Dec. 29, 2001, against the Charlotte Hornets.According to ESPN, Crawford also became the first player to score 50 points for four different franchises (Chicago Bulls, New York Knicks, Golden State Warriors and now Phoenix).The Suns closed out a miserable season, finishing 19-63.A longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery kept Nowitzki out until mid-December. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career, and averaged 6.6 points in less than 15 minutes a game before Tuesday.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted "M-V-P! M-V-P!" Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2006-07 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.The future of the Mavs (33-48), rookie Luka Doncic, also didn't disappoint, notching his eighth triple-double with 21 points, 11 assists and 16 rebounds. He moved into sole possession of third place for most triple-doubles by a rookie.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherCaris LeVert will return to the Brooklyn Nets on Friday, giving the team a boost as it jockeys for playoff position.LeVert has been out since November with a dislocated foot. He had landed awkwardly on a block attempt in a game against the Minnesota Timberwolves and was carried from the court on a stretcher. Given the frightening nature of the injury, and the dark speculation at the time, Nets fans will be happy to see him returning comparatively quickly.LeVert, a wing, had been averaging 18.4 points a game for the team, second only to D’Angelo Russell’s 19.8. It had been a breakthrough year for him after seasons averaging 8 and 12 points a game. His return will come Friday in a home game against the Bulls.The Nets also recently welcomed back shooting guard Allen Crabbe. He played Wednesday night for the first time after a two-month absence with a knee injury. He had 5 points in 13 minutes in a home victory over the Nuggets.But it is not all good news for the Nets. Spencer Dinwiddie, the team’s point guard and third-leading scorer, has missed the last seven games with a thumb injury and could be out for a month or more.The Nets, widely expected to be among the N.B.A. doormats when the season started, are in the heat of the playoff race, currently occupying the sixth seed.“I can’t wait to be a part of that,” LeVert said Thursday. “I’m very excited.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Joel Embiid is not playing for the Philadelphia 76ers on Thursday night in Game 3 against the Brooklyn Nets because of a sore left knee.Embiid warmed up before the game but the 76ers announced shortly before the start that the All-Star center wouldn't be available. Greg Monroe was listed as their starter.Embiid was troubled by the knee late in the regular season and was listed as doubtful for Game 1 of the series. But he played in both games in Philadelphia, collecting a pair of double-doubles.The series is tied 1-1.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperSince moving to Brooklyn in 2012, the Nets have closely aligned their brand with that of Christopher Wallace, the rapper known as the Notorious B.I.G., who grew up a brisk walk from where Barclays Center was later built to host the N.B.A. But a special version of the team’s jersey, with a design inspired by Wallace, is at the center of a copyright violation lawsuit against the Nets, the N.B.A. and Nike filed by the clothing brand Coogi in Manhattan federal court Wednesday.Before the season, the Nets debuted their new Nike-manufactured “City Edition” jerseys, which feature a multicolored striped pattern down the sides that the team called “Brooklyn Camo.” In marketing materials, the team said the jerseys were inspired by Wallace.The “Brooklyn Camo” pattern bears a close resemblance to patterns Coogi has used in its clothing for years, and for which it claims to have over 300 design copyrights. Coogi, a New York-based brand, is also heavily associated with Wallace. The rapper was photographed in Coogi’s clothing, and he referred to the brand in at least two of his songs, including the hit “Hypnotize.”Wallace never rapped about or wore “Brooklyn Camo,” Coogi says in its lawsuit, and the company claims that the jerseys copy its designs, specifically the “Pea Soup” and “Ricotta” patterns. The lawsuit also says one of the defendants purchased advertisements on Google searches for “Coogi Brooklyn Nets” and “Brooklyn Coogi” in order to direct people looking for genuine Coogi products to instead buy Nets merchandise.In a statement to The New York Times, Mike Bass, the N.B.A.’s spokesman, said, “There is no merit whatsoever to their claims.”The Nets and Nike declined to comment on the lawsuit.None of the defendants have filed a response to Coogi’s claim. But attached to Coogi’s lawsuit are letters exchanged between Coogi’s legal counsel and an N.B.A. lawyer, which detail possible legal defenses for the league, team and Nike.In a letter from November, Michael Potenza, the N.B.A.’s intellectual property counsel, wrote to a lawyer for Coogi that the league was “unaware of any design owned by your client to which the Brooklyn Camo is substantially similar.” Potenza explained why the case law on trademark infringement would make it difficult for Coogi to prove its claims, and said the Brooklyn Camo design did not confuse customers. He also said that the N.B.A. obtained consent from the estate of Wallace, who was killed in 1997, to use his name in association with the jersey.In a later letter, Potenza wrote that the Brooklyn Camo design is not similar to Coogi’s designs for a number of reasons: brighter colors, narrower stripes that are horizontal instead vertical, and positioning only on the piping of the jersey, not across the entire top as in Coogi’s designs.On Friday, the first 10,000 fans in attendance for the Nets game against the Charlotte Hornets will receive a Notorious B.I.G. bobblehead.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — The Philadelphia 76ers are listing Joel Embiid as doubtful for Game 4 of their first-round series against the Brooklyn Nets.Embiid has been bothered by a sore left knee, but was able to play in the first two games of the series. He warmed up before Game 3 on Thursday night before it was decided that he couldn't play.Embiid worked out Friday at the 76ers' practice in New York but coach Brett Brown said he didn't know and didn't have a gut feeling about whether his All-Star center would be able to go Saturday afternoon.The 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory without Embiid and lead the series 2-1. Greg Monroe started at center and had nine points and 13 rebounds.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellSometime in the third quarter, as the Philadelphia 76ers rained down 3-pointers like mortar shots and Ben Simmons, a giant point guard possessed of preternatural passing ability and a bricklayer’s touch, carved through the Nets, a thought occurred:This was not the playoff homecoming of the Nets’ dreams.The Nets tried but never really contended Thursday night. The men from Philadelphia simply had too much talent and too many big bodies on their way to a 2-1 first-round series lead, and that was a shame. Saddled with the worst attendance in the N.B.A. this season, Barclays Center in Brooklyn was packed to the gills with fans waving towels and hooting and yelling. The joint was packed and joyfully rocking.The Nets are a pretty good pro hoops team in a city where terrible often rules the roost. Their coach, Kenny Atkinson, a likable and intelligent basketball lifer, took over a team that was expected to dwell in the cellar and won more games, 42, than it lost, 40, this season.That was in contrast to the disaster masquerading as a basketball team at Madison Square Garden, where the Knicks’ management team crafted a grotesquely bad team that finished 17-65. (Losing no longer impresses because the Knicks have posted losing records in 15 of the last 18 years.) In a sign that God may have a strange sense of humor, those same Knicks are widely rumored to be a favorite to gain the services of the brilliant forward Kevin Durant, who can become a free agent this summer.But enough about that other New York team.After falling into a deep ditch under previous management, the Brooklyn Nets have executed a slow, steady rebuild, instilling discipline and a sense of Nets basketball, which is to say a fluid, slashing style that relies on small forwards and guards bolstered by lean, swift centers who block shots and rebound and run. Their general manager, Sean Marks, a former San Antonio Spurs assistant and executive, has picked up talented role players much as a fishmonger sorts through a barrel and plucks out tasty sea bass.The Nets have a fine quartet of guards and small forwards, D’Angelo Russell and Spencer Dinwiddie, Joe Harris and Caris LeVert, creative players all, who can probe and find seams in defenses and stroke jump shots.So this game on Thursday offered a chance to draw the measure of a Nets team rising more quickly than expected and of a Sixers team that hopes to compete for a championship. On that last point I walked away nursing doubts.The Sixers for six years were an experimental laboratory, their former general manager Sam Hinkie occupying a reputational land between supposed genius and madman. They lost intentionally and insistently, and accumulated top draft picks, not the least the 6-foot-10 point guard Simmons and the splendidly talented big man Joel Embiid. Sixers ownership eventually discarded Hinkie. But that team now is expected to contend, and the current general manager made a series of trades toward that end this season.Yet a week into playoff season, the engine of that 76ers machine is coughing. Embiid has come up with a chronically sore knee. That is a problem for any athlete, much less a 7-foot, 270-pound center. The assumption Thursday night was that he would play, an impression reinforced when Embiid took the court an hour before the game and shot around. He shot fadeaways and spun like a dervish and put up graceful hook shots.Then minutes before tipoff, the 76ers’ coaches shook their heads. Nope, his knee was too sore. Embiid was sitting. That left the big man in a bad mood. Moments before the tip, as teammates walked over to dap him up and slap his back, Embiid could barely look at them or the court.Simmons is no less talented, and perhaps more baffling. He is a brilliant athlete with stunning vision and dribbling ability. When he breaks swiftly into the open court, his passing takes on a sleight-of-hand quality, so quick that you notice the ball only as it lands in the hands of a teammate.Alas, his shooting edges toward disastrous, and his confidence in it is sodden. Rather than put his hand under the ball, he puts it off to the side, his left elbow sticking out like a chicken wing. He practices his shooting before games with often unsightly results. On Thursday evening, he stood in the corner and took pass after pass from an assistant coach and shot and shot. He made, by my count, five baskets in 15 attempts. Then he took 3-point shots from the shoulder of the key, going 1 for 6.You wanted to cover your eyes and suggest that maybe he should stick to layups. Yet by shooting layups and hook shots and dunks, he finished the game with 31 points and 9 assists.He is the best fundamentally unsound player in the N.B.A. And you wonder how this still unformed 22-year-old star and a gimpy-knee center can stumble into the N.B.A. finals.In a strange way, on this night, Embiid’s absence liberated his teammates. They shot 40 percent from 3-point range to the Nets’ 20 percent, and they outrebounded them, too.If the 76ers have a playoff advantage, it may reside with their veteran talent, in particular Tobias Harris, Jimmy Butler and J.J. Redick. During a Nets run late in the third quarter, Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown called a timeout and drew up a play. Then you saw Redick stand up and start talking and pointing. Then Butler leaned in and interjected. Brown fell silent, then nodded in agreement. Fine, he said, we’ll run it differently.As they walked out onto the court after the timeout, Butler and Redick kept talking, resembling two professors discussing a knotty physics problem. “That was pros talking to pros,” Brown said later.The Nets are a young crew, not unduly burdened by egos and attitude. But they are not yet at a pros-talking-to-pros level. They are a promising troupe still in search of a leading man.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — D'Angelo Russell had 25 points and 10 assists, and the Brooklyn Nets beat the short-handed Milwaukee Bucks 133-128 on Saturday to improve their positioning in the Eastern Conference playoff race.Brooklyn (40-40) made 19 3-pointers and placed eight players in double figures. Caris LeVert had 24 points, and Jared Dudley finished with 16.The Nets, who had dropped four of five, moved into sixth place in the East. Orlando also is 40-40, and Detroit is a half-game back with a 39-40 record.Milwaukee played without MVP candidate Giannis Antetokounmpo, who was sidelined by a left calf injury. The Bucks (59-21) clinched the NBA's best record with a road victory against Philadelphia on Thursday night.Eric Bledsoe had 33 points and 11 assists for Milwaukee, and Khris Middleton finished with 24 points.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellUnhappy with mere tanking, displeased with their success at earning the N.B.A.’s worst record, the Knicks took Kristaps Porzingis, their once-in-a-generation asset, their most, and perhaps only, popular player, and traded him to the Dallas Mavericks on Thursday for potsherds and trinkets.Actually, point of information: Porzingis was not even the center of the transaction. The Knicks tossed him in as a sweetener to persuade the Mavericks to also take the putative shooting guard Tim Hardaway and his frightful contract. It was Steve Mills, the team president, whose feel for failure is bred in the bone, who handed Hardaway that $70.9 million deal two years ago. Now Mills and the rest of the Knicks’ vaunted leadership group have traded Porzingis to get rid of it.Had I been able to reach Mark Cuban, the Mavericks’ owner, for comment on his Porzingis heist, I can only assume he would have dissolved into uncontrollable laughter.We live in a national age of delusion and unapologetic rule-breaking, so perhaps there is a pleasingly nefarious explanation for this trade. If so, Knicks management should cling to it like a barnacle on the hull of a sinking ship. Perhaps the Knicks have successfully tampered with another team’s asset and know that Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving, or both, will sign in the summer now that the franchise has plenty of cap space.But I would put the chances that the Knicks could pull off something that clever and diabolical at 6.82 percent. When in doubt it is wisest to bank on inexplicable incompetence.Porzingis apparently helped set all this off by requesting a trade. As a 7-foot-3 23-year-old coming off a serious knee injury, he represented a conundrum for management. Do you commit this summer to a long-term contract of the sort that would tickle the tummy of Croesus? Let’s assume the Knicks’ crack medical and rehabilitation staff warned that his future looked iffy.If so, why wouldn’t Knicks management dangle Porzingis for a week or more to interested teams and let natural competitive instincts come into play around the league? When healthy, Porzingis is a top 20 player, and that made him a rare asset. Instead, the Knicks traded him posthaste for the aging center DeAndre Jordan and a talented, but raw, point guard, Dennis Smith Jr. The Knicks already have raw point guards, so maybe management succumbed to a collect-them-all fever.All theories and psychological analyses are welcome.I’ve followed the Knicks for decades now, and my sons soon contracted my affliction. Like residents in a smallpox ward we often debate whether we have divined one obscure reason or another for faint hope, which is why I hopped the subway a week ago and went to Barclays Center to watch the Knicks take on the Brooklyn Nets.It was a desultory affair at times, but it did feature a Nets team that is climbing in the standings with surprising speed, in contrast to the Knicks, who are hurtling happily downward. And the Nets played like men returned from a near-death experience, happily surprised to possess a winning record after four losing seasons in the Hades of the N.B.A.To his credit, the Nets’ general manager, Sean Marks, has executed a smart rebuild with a fishmonger’s eye for plucking useful talent out of the discard pool. The Nets play a swarming defense with a collective bounce, and their wait-who-is-that-guy no-names are long on desire and short on distorting egos. It was possible to daydream that if only they could sign a Durant or a Kawhi Leonard as a free agent, the Nets could be a genuine terror in the Eastern Conference.The Knicks offer terror of a different sort. They decided this season to double down on what they have done instinctually for so many years and devote their energies to pure losing. They are superb at it. Entering Friday’s game against Boston, their record stood at 10-40, which assures them a high draft pick in June.The modern N.B.A. is an upstairs-downstairs league and runs a two-tier competition: The upstairs version is staged by the top 10 or so teams and is all about winning and praying that your team will not face the Golden State Warriors until late in the playoffs, at which point you will be excused for exiting quickly and feet first.The downstairs version involves a half-dozen teams, and the point is to become the worst of the worst and pray you can draft a young stud who will turn around your franchise. The worst-run teams return year after year to this brackish well. This is the game at which the Knicks currently excel.And there is indeed much unlovely about these Knicks. Their defense occupies a netherworld between theoretical and clueless. Their now-traded shooting guard, Hardaway, appeared to have had his conscience surgically removed and would shoot anywhere at any time and none too successfully.And yet, and yet, I thought these Knicks offered a rough hope. They have the youngest team in the league, a group of foals, and a few might even possess lasting talent. Put them together with Porzingis, and something intriguing might emerge.Friends resisted these optimistic blandishments, and I dug that. In James Dolan, the Knicks have an owner who meddles and hires and fires team presidents and coaches like a mad king. In the past 17 seasons, the Knicks finished with a winning record precisely twice. This one will be no better.Still, I felt hope. The new coach, David Fizdale, is a clever basketball man who seemed O.K. with playing dorm father to a collection of teenagers. This week, Fizdale pointed to the Philadelphia 76ers, the Denver Nuggets and, yes, the Nets as young teams that weathered harrowing days and re-emerged in solid shape.“All of these teams went through hell,” Fizdale said. “You got to get steeled up. This league is not going to let you walk in here as a young team and just think you’re going to come out winning.”Not long after those remarks, the Knicks traded Porzingis. My eldest son, Nick, a fierce dead-ender on the question of team loyalties, is now recommending a family summit with a single agenda item: to switch or not to switch to the Nets?This feels almost as inconceivable as trading a 23-year-old star-in-the-making for potsherds.Mission accomplished all around.Email: powellm@nytimes.comAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSome Brooklyn Nets players are unhappy with the laughing apology given by Philadelphia center Joel Embiid over the elbow he delivered in Game 2, calling it "disrespectful."Embiid was whistled for a Flagrant 1 foul after a vicious elbow that caught the jaw of Brooklyn's Jarrett Allen during the 76ers' victory. Embiid apologized for the elbow during the postgame press conference but broke into laughter with teammate Ben Simmons doing it."We didn't really like that," Nets guard Caris LeVert said Wednesday. "We thought that was kind of disrespectful, especially after the elbow he threw. There's no love lost. It's a playoff series. We expect that."Embiid said Simmons laughed because "I'm not usually humble," an explanation accepted by the Nets' Jared Dudley as Embiid being a "silly guy." However, Dudley didn't full excuse it."I felt a certain type of way for it just because you're laughing and someone could have really gotten hurt," Dudley said. "That's been Embiid's personality, but just because it's your personality doesn't mean it's right. So, for us, you can either get even however you want to do it, but the biggest thing for us to get even is winning Game 3."Game 3 is Thursday night in Brooklyn with the series tied 1-1.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Sopan DebBOSTON — Jayson Tatum boomed on LeBron James in last year’s N.B.A. playoffs. You may remember it. Tatum, the 21-year-old swingman for the Boston Celtics, certainly does.The dunk drew a “wow” from the play-by-play broadcaster Mike Breen. A reporter wrote on Twitter that in the locker room afterward, he overheard James saying that Tatum had “boomed” him, before James repeated four times, “He’s so good.”“I’ve got a big-ass picture of it in my house,” Tatum said in a post-practice interview on Tuesday.The dunk came in the fourth quarter of Game 7 of last year’s Eastern Conference finals. Starting from outside the 3-point line, Tatum took two dribbles with his left hand to get to the rim before hammering a right-handed dunk past James, who attempted a block as a helpless defender. Tatum followed the booming with a chest bump of James, one of his boyhood idols, as if to say, “I’m here.”The Celtics lost that game, but the dunk solidified Tatum, who played one season at Duke, as an emerging N.B.A. star.After the Celtics’ disappointing regular-season run this season, Tatum’s star hasn’t been as bright so far in these playoffs as Boston faces the Indiana Pacers in the first round. He did not make the leap many had thought he would: While he improved as a rebounder and passer, his shot selection led to more long 2-pointers, causing his true shooting percentage to dip from .586 in his rookie campaign to .547 this year, placing him below .560, the league average.He increased his frequency of midrange jumpers but decreased his accuracy in making them: 37 percent, down from 44 percent. Many of his advanced metric statistics, including win shares per 48 minutes, value over replacement player and box plus/minus, were worse this year.Tatum finds himself in an unusual spot, compared with fellow N.B.A. sophomores like Utah’s Donovan Mitchell and Philadelphia’s Ben Simmons. The better Tatum plays, especially in this postseason, the more likely he is to be linked to trade rumors, particularly those involving Anthony Davis, the New Orleans Pelicans star who has requested a trade that could shift the competitive balance in the N.B.A.Several college starters in this year’s Final Four were older than Tatum. But if he cannot live up to the hype he created in last year’s playoffs — that is, if he becomes just another guard — the Pelicans may be more likely to accept a package from the Los Angeles Lakers or another team besides Boston. At the same time, if Celtics point guard Kyrie Irving opts for free agency this summer, the future of the franchise may rest on Tatum’s shoulders. At barely 21, he’d be the alpha.Tatum’s future is more uncertain than many other players who have received significant early acclaim. But one way or another, the Celtics need Tatum to be great. Not just for this year’s playoffs, but for the future.In short, they need him to boom.In a conversation at the Celtics’ practice facility about his future and the atypical stakes, Tatum had talking points at the ready, ones that he had delivered multiple times before. He stared straight ahead, not making eye contact, as if he were running through the script in his head.“Trade rumors don’t bother me,” he said in his deep monotone. “They’re talking about trading me for guys like Anthony Davis. So, I mean, I must be doing something pretty well.” When pressed on whether this bothered him, he didn’t budge: “I love the game of basketball. Being traded is part of the game. I’ll play for whomever. It’s something I can’t control.”He didn’t have much more to say than that. But that is Tatum’s personality, Brad Stevens, the Celtics’ head coach, said. No distractions. That, Stevens said, is his best quality.“Circumstances don’t affect him,” Stevens said. “First game of the season, he’s unaffected by the jitters that everybody has. Seventh game of a playoff series? Unaffected. At least, he shows himself to be unaffected, and he can thrive in that environment.”Stevens said Tatum’s quality of play had improved as he got deeper into the season. He became a better passer, averaging 2.8 assists after the All-Star break, compared with 1.9 before. But his shooting dipped, from 38 percent from deep before the break to 35 percent afterward.Last season, Tatum benefited from the low expectations for the Celtics after injuries to Irving, forward Gordon Hayward and the reserve center Daniel Theis. But he also helped carry Boston to within one win of an unlikely N.B.A. finals appearance. This year, “unlikely” is not in the playoff vocabulary. The Celtics are supposed to get there. And Boston’s fans, never the most positive bunch, can turn on a player in a second. If the Celtics do not advance, after many analysts predicted they would, fans may view Tatum’s season in a harsh light, given how much of the franchise’s fortunes are tied up with him.Tatum said he was not as nervous about the playoffs this time around. Taking a daily pregame nap with his 16-month-old son has helped. The early returns have been positive: In the first game of the series against the Pacers, Tatum scored 15 points on 11 shots. He was plus-11 in 34 minutes as the Celtics ran away with a win. In Game 2, Tatum was even better. He scored 26 points on 20 shots, including multiple thunderous dunks in the fourth quarter, helping Boston take a 2-0 lead in the series.But there hasn’t been a highlight that has matched the dunk on James. Tatum shook his head no when asked if he had ever talked to James about that play. A hint of a grin betrayed his practiced demeanor.“They won, so they got the last laugh,” Tatum said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressKyrie Irving scored 37 points and the Boston Celtics rallied late in the fourth quarter to beat the Indiana Pacers by 99-91 on Wednesday night. The win gave Boston a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven, first-round seriesComing out of a timeout and with a chance to tie, the Pacers’ Wesley Matthews threw an inbounds pass into the bench on the other side of the court with 12.1 seconds left. On the ensuing play, the Celtics’ Al Horford passed to Jayson Tatum, who was fouled on a two-handed dunk. He completed the three-point play to make it 97-91 with 8.8 seconds left.The Pacers turned it over again and the Celtics were able to close out the game at the free throw line.Tatum scored 26 points, including a thunderous dunk down the stretch to help punctuate a 10-0 run by Boston over the final five minutes.[Read: Jayson Tatum has a daily reminder of the booming dunk he delivered on LeBron James last year.]Bojan Bogdanovic led Indiana with 23 points. Thaddeus Young added 15 points.Indiana led by 79-68 entering the fourth. Horford opened the final period scoring on a hook shot in the lane and Tyreke Evans responded with a 3-pointer on Indiana’s first possession.But then Boston caught fire, using a 16-0 run, including eight straight by Irving, to take an 86-82 lead with 5:04 to play. Indiana missed 10 straight shots during the run, finally breaking a nearly eight-minute scoring drought with a 3-pointer by Matthews in front of the Celtics’ bench.Horford had been a game-time decision with an illness, but was able to remain in the Celtics’ starting lineup. He was noticeably a step slower at the outset and didn’t take his first shot until late in the second quarter. He didn’t score his first points until the fourth, finishing with four points, 10 rebounds and four assists for the game.Game 3 is Friday in Indiana.BUCKS 120, PISTONS 99 Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points in Milwaukee’s big third quarter and the Bucks beat the Detroit Pistons, 120-99, on Wednesday night to take a 2-0 lead in the first-round playoff series.Eric Bledsoe led the Bucks with 27 points, and Khris Middleton had 24. Milwaukee is trying win a playoff series for the first time since 2001.Luke Kennard had 19 points for Detroit. Reggie Jackson and Andre Drummond each added 18, and Drummond had 16 rebounds. Detroit star Blake Griffin sat out again with a left knee injury, but received a technical for the second straight game for arguing from the bench.After scoring 10 points and playing only 14 minutes in the first half because of foul trouble, Antetokounmpo scored Milwaukee’s first seven points in the third quarter. The Bucks outscored Detroit 35-17 in the period to take a 93-76 lead into the fourth.Detroit clawed within seven in the fourth before the Bucks put it away, capped by a hard drive by Antetokounmpo on a break. He banked in an awkward reverse-angle shot while crashing to the floor after being fouled by Drummond. He competed the three-point play it make it 105-87.Game 3 is Saturday night in Detroit.GRIZZLIES HIRE EXECUTIVES The Memphis Grizzlies have hired Rich Cho as vice president of basketball strategy and Glen Grunwald as a senior adviser within the franchise’s basketball operations department.Cho is a former Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers general manager. Grunwald was general manager of the Knicks and the Toronto Raptors.Before coming to Portland, Cho was an assistant general manager with the Seattle SuperSonics and continued in that role when the franchise became the Oklahoma City Thunder. Grunwald worked with the Knicks from 2006-13, serving as executive vice president and general manager for the final two seasons of that stretch. He was Toronto’s general manager from 1997 to 2004.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaSACRAMENTO — The Boston Celtics were not in a good place when they boarded a plane bound for California on Sunday. They were coming off a home loss to the Houston Rockets that point guard Kyrie Irving punctuated by using a total of 43 words to answer nine questions in his postgame news conference.At one point, he was asked whether he thought the team could cobble together some momentum on its West Coast trip.“We’ll see,” he whispered.Just one season removed from a run to the N.B.A.’s Eastern Conference finals, and seemingly improved by the re-addition of Gordon Hayward and the continued development of their young core, the Celtics were on the brink of falling apart. Any hope they still harbored of being a championship-ready team was as brittle as a toothpick.But after some reflection and conversation, the Celtics regained a bit of their swagger with back-to-back wins this week against the Golden State Warriors and the Sacramento Kings. The Celtics will see if they can keep the good vibes going on Saturday against the Los Angeles Lakers, which is anything but certain, especially for Irving, whose season has been clouded by questions about his future with the team.Such uncertainty does not make Irving unique in the modern N.B.A. — Kevin Durant of the Warriors and Kawhi Leonard of the Toronto Raptors are among the other stars who will weigh big decisions in free agency this summer — but the Celtics have let the noise affect them.With the two wins this week improving their record to 40-26, the Celtics may be showing signs that they are finally, mercifully, learning how to cope.“That long plane ride helped us out,” Irving said after Tuesday’s lopsided victory over the Warriors. “I’ll just say that. We needed it. We needed it. We were going to get to a point where we were just going to get tired of fighting each other, fighting the outside world when it doesn’t really matter. So we just wanted to come out here and play basketball.“This is our sanctuary, and we have to do everything we can to protect it. We can’t let anyone infiltrate it.”Irving, who missed Wednesday’s win against the Kings with a left thigh contusion, is averaging a team-leading 23.4 points a game along with 7 assists and 4.9 rebounds, both career highs. He is also shooting 49.5 percent from the field and 41.7 percent from 3-point range.He also ranks among the N.B.A. leaders in mercurial behavior. He has been vague about the specific source of his discontent, but it may have something to do with his pending free agency.Irving backed off an earlier pledge to re-sign with the Celtics after they struggled at the start of the season. In fact, during a trip to New York to play the Knicks on Feb. 1, he told a group of reporters in his own colorfully abrasive way that he did not owe anyone anything. The Knicks, of course, would be interested in signing Irving, a six-time All-Star who grew up in New Jersey and has a soft spot for Madison Square Garden.Then came the All-Star break, and a clip of Irving and Durant having an inaudible conversation found its way to the internet, where an army of amateur lip readers tried to decode what they were saying. Worth noting: Irving and Durant are close friends. Also worth noting: The Knicks will have enough cap space this summer for two max contracts.Irving refused to shed light on their chat, and said it was nobody’s business, which was his prerogative. But it had the general effect of using a napkin to mop up an oil spill.Since then, Irving has been alluding to nefarious forces and the steep cost of celebrity, saying he hates the spotlight — even as he sells sneakers and moonlights as an actor. He reiterated his disdain this week after collecting 19 points and 11 assists against the Warriors, his 17th double-double this season.“The business part of it is just what makes it terrible for me — honestly, dealing with all this,” he said, referring to the reporters around him. “I’m going to be honest with you guys: The basketball part of it? I have to keep that fun. That’s where I’m great. Being around my teammates, that’s what makes me happy. And the business part of it is going to be business.”It was not lost on anyone who witnessed this exchange that Irving was bashing the business of basketball while wearing an Uncle Drew ball cap — the same Uncle Drew character he popularized in soft drink commercials and then parlayed into a movie released last year.As for the basketball itself, well, Boston has had an uneven season, the product of a team that is not nearly Lakers-level dysfunctional but is not exactly cohesive, either. The Celtics arrived for their game against the Warriors having lost five of their last six games, and their locker room was a joyless place.Perhaps they needed to get away from Boston. Perhaps they needed perspective. Perhaps Irving needed to speak with Danny Ainge, the team’s president of basketball operations, and Brad Stevens, its coach, who reminded Irving that the team still had a lot of season left to play. It was not over, not yet, not by any stretch.“Every team has to find a togetherness in competing,” Stevens said. “Some teams, it takes 60 games. Some teams, it takes 20 games. And bad teams never get there. We hope that it took us 60 games, but we’ll see. We haven’t proven ourselves to be great at that yet for a long stretch of time.”In their 128-95 win against the Warriors, the Celtics had 38 assists on 49 field goals. They also communicated. When Irving and forward Jaylen Brown botched a play that led to an early turnover, Brown patted himself on the chest to apologize, then appeared to apologize a second time on their next trip up the court.The next night, in Sacramento, Irving sat behind the visiting bench for the Celtics’ 111-109 victory over the Kings. He was vocal. He did a lot of fist-pumping. And he celebrated when Hayward, less than 24 hours after scoring 30 points against the Warriors, connected on the game-winner.After suffering a grisly ankle injury in the opening game and missing last season, Hayward has struggled to find a rhythm in his return. Maybe he found it here in California, along with the rest of the team. The Celtics are too talented to let this opportunity go to waste, because who knows how long it will last?“As long as my teammates are feeling good,” Irving said, “then we’re in a good place.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressJaylen Brown scored 23 points and Kyrie Irving added 19 to help the Boston Celtics beat the host Indiana Pacers, 104-96, on Friday night for a 3-0 lead in the first-round Eastern Conference series.Irving also had 10 assists and 5 rebounds, and Jayson Tatum had 18 points and 7 rebounds for the Celtics, who can eliminate the Pacers on Sunday in Indianapolis.“We’re all making sure we’re giving each other confidence and doing the little things to ensure we win,” Irving said. “When you have that type of camaraderie, executing is a lot easier. Now that the stakes are higher, we’re settling into who we want to be.”Tyreke Evans matched his career playoff high with 19 points for Indiana, and Bojan Bogdanovic had 15, not enough to prevent the Pacers from losing their sixth straight to Boston in the regular season and the playoffs.The Celtics’ defense again turned the game, allowing just 12 points in the third quarter, as they put the Pacers on the brink of their second series sweep in three years.Indiana had erased a 15-point first half deficit to take a 61-59 halftime lead, and Myles Turner opened the third with a 3-pointer for the Pacers. But Boston charged back with 8 straight points to retake the lead and closed the quarter with a 9-2 run to make it 80-73.Boston gave up 8 points in the third quarter of Game 1 and 12 in the fourth quarter of Game 2.RAPTORS 98, MAGIC 83 Pascal Siakam had 30 points and 11 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard added 16 points, and Toronto held off host Orlando to take a 2-1 lead in their Eastern Conference first-round series.Siakam was 13 for 20 from the field, and the Raptors held Orlando to 36 percent shooting. Terrence Ross led Orlando with 24 points, and Nikola Vucevic shook off a slow start to finish with 22 points and 14 rebounds.Game 4 is Sunday night in Orlando.The Raptors trailed, 61-60, midway through the third quarter before going on a 16-0 run over the next four minutes to take the lead for good.Kyle Lowry’s 3-pointer with 7 minutes 48 seconds left gave Toronto its biggest lead, 86-69. The Magic rallied, and Ross’s 3-pointer with 41 seconds left cut the deficit to 96-93.Leonard was short with a jumper on the next possession, but the Magic could not control the rebound. Leonard made two free throws with 12.9 seconds remaining to make it a two-possession game again, and that closed the scoring.Orlando, which finished the regular season by winning 13 of its final 14 home games, was 13 of 44 from 3-point range.THUNDER 120, TRAIL BLAZERS 108 Russell Westbrook had 33 points and 11 assists and Oklahoma City won at home against Portland to cut its Western Conference series deficit to 2-1.Paul George added 22 points, Jerami Grant had 18 and Dennis Schroder 17 for the Thunder, who will host Game 4 on Sunday night.Damian Lillard scored 32 points for the Trail Blazers, but he had just 3 in the fourth quarter after scoring 25 in the third. C.J. McCollum had 21 points, and Enes Kanter added 19.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOSTON — A poor third quarter did the Indiana Pacers in during Game 1 of their first-round series with the Boston Celtics.In Game 2, Boston seized on a fourth-quarter collapse by Indiana.Kyrie Irving scored 37 points and Boston rallied late in the fourth quarter to beat Indiana 99-91 Wednesday night and take a 2-0 lead in the best-of-seven series.Coming out of a timeout and with a chance for Indiana to tie, the Pacers' Wesley Matthews threw an inbounds pass into the bench on the other side of the court with 12.1 seconds left. On the ensuing play, the Celtics' Al Horford passed to Jayson Tatum, who was fouled on a two-handed dunk. He completed the three-point play to make it 97-91 with 8.8 seconds left.The Pacers turned it over again and the Celtics were able to close out the game at the free throw line.Tatum scored 26 points, including his thunderous dunk down the stretch to help punctuate a 10-0 run by Boston over the final five minutes.Irving said being able to have this kind of performance at TD Garden after sitting out the playoffs last season wasn't lost on him."It's just been a long journey," Irving said. "From having those two knee surgeries and watching the team last year and finally getting chance to lace them up for the Boston Celtics in the NBA playoffs — it's nothing like it."After scoring only eight points in the third quarter of Game 1, the Pacers scored only 12 points in the fourth of Game 2."It's always been one quarter that kills us in the second half," Thaddeus Young said. "We're getting good looks and shots are not falling. ... We gotta put together a 48-minute game and we haven't been able to that."Bojan Bogdanovic led Indiana with 23 points. Young added 15 points. Myles Turner finished with six blocks.Game 3 is Friday in Indiana.Darren Collison scored seven points during a 10-0 run that gave the Pacers a 70-58 lead in the third quarter as turnovers began to pile up for the Celtics.Indiana led 79-68 entering the fourth. Horford opened the final period scoring on a hook shot in the lane and Tyreke Evans responded with a 3-pointer on Indiana's first possession.But then Boston got hot, using a 16-0 run, including eight straight by Irving, to take an 86-82 lead with 5:04 to play. Indiana missed 10 straight shots during the run, finally breaking a nearly eight-minute scoring drought with a 3-pointer by Matthews in front of the Celtics' bench.Bogdanovic hit a 3-pointer from virtually the same spot as Matthews to put the Pacers back in front. Gordon Hayward responded with a jumper, before Bogdanovic hit another 3 over Horford that made it 91-89 Pacers with 2:16 remaining.Following an Indiana miss, Tatum connected on a 3-pointer from the corner. And after Horford blocked Bogdanovic at the rim, Tatum found a cutting Hayward for a layup and the Pacers were undone by their late turnovers."Missed a couple of good looks. Held them under a 100. The defense was still there. They made more timely baskets than we did," Matthews said.Horford was a game-time decision with an illness but was able to remain in the Celtics' starting lineup. He was noticeably a step slower at the outset and didn't' take his first shot until late in the second quarter. He didn't score his first points until the fourth, finishing with four points, 10 rebounds and four assists for the game."It wasn't just about putting points on the board, it was just about doing the little things," Irving said. "It was a gritty win."TIP-INSPacers: Were outrebounded for the second straight game 41-32.Celtics: Coach Brad Stevens received a technical foul in the third quarter. It marked just was just third of the season.BETTER STARTAfter both teams struggled from the field in Game 1, they combined to hit 10 straight shots to open Game 2.The Pacers shot 65 percent in the first quarter, but were just 7 for 20 from the field and 0 for 7 from beyond the 3-point arc in the second. The Celtics seized on it, outscoring them 23-17 in the quarter and taking a 52-50 halftime lead.PATRIOT SUPPORTSeveral New England Patriots were in attendance for Game 2. Among those in attendance were coach Bill Belichick, reigning Super Bowl MVP Julian Edelman, Devin and Jason McCourty, Sony Michel and Duron Harmon.UP NEXTThe series shifts to Indianapolis for Game 3 on Friday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. PlayoffsBy The Associated PressThe Boston Celtics have been at their best this season when they are forcing turnovers, spacing the floor and knocking down outside shots.They found out in their win at home against the Pacers that they were equipped to win an ugly, physical game as well.Irving and Marcus Morris each scored 20 points, and the Celtics rallied in the second half to beat the Indiana Pacers, 84-74, on Sunday in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.Jayson Tatum finished with 15 points for fourth-seeded Boston, and Al Horford added 10 points and 11 rebounds, and Gordon Hayward had 10 points. It was the first playoff game since 2017 for Irving and Hayward after each missed last year’s postseason with injuries.“I just try to be aggressive on the ball, be in the right spots,” Irving said. “I just really want to be aggressive and really be the head of the snake.”Game 2 is Wednesday night in Boston.The fifth-seeded Pacers led by 11 points in the first half but had just 8 in the third quarter. The Celtics capitalized and led by as many as 22 in the fourth. Indiana finished with a season-worst 29 points in the second half.Cory Joseph had 14 points for the Pacers, and Bojan Bogdanovic was their lone starter in double figures with 12 points.Both teams shot worse than 40 percent from the field. Boston hit just 36 percent (28 of 77) and had 20 turnovers. Indiana connected on 33 percent of its shots (28 of 84) and turned the ball over 13 times.The Celtics’ 84 points were their fewest of the season; it was the first time Boston scored fewer than 100 points and won.“We held them to 84 points,” Indiana’s Wesley Matthews said. “We just didn’t score enough.”BUCKS 121, PISTONS 86 Giannis Antetokounmpo had 24 points and 17 rebounds in just 24 minutes, and top-seeded Milwaukee routed eighth-seeded Detroit in their East opener.Antetokounmpo ran and dunked all over the visiting Pistons, who caught him only when center Andre Drummond shoved him to the ground late in the third quarter after Antetokounmpo grabbed an offensive rebound with Detroit trailing by 41 points.Drummond was given a flagrant 2 foul and ejected. He threw a kiss to the Fiserv Forum crowd as he was escorted off the court.Antetokounmpo struggled at the free-throw line, making only five of 12 attempts, but was 9 for 17 from the field and 1 of 5 from 3-point range.Luke Kennard paced the Pistons with 21 points off the bench, and Drummond had 12 points and 12 rebounds. Detroit played without forward Blake Griffin, who has a left knee injury.TRAIL BLAZERS 104, THUNDER 99 Damian Lillard scored 30 points and third-seeded Portland opened its Western Conference series against sixth-seeded Oklahoma City Thunder with a win at home.Enes Kanter added 20 points and a career playoff-high 18 rebounds for the Blazers, who are making their sixth straight postseason appearance but had lost eight games in a row over the previous two postseasons. C J McCollum added 24 points.Russell Westbrook had 24 points, 10 assists and 10 rebounds for his ninth career postseason triple-double. Paul George, who was a game-time decision because of a sore shoulder, added 26 points and 10 rebounds after a slow start.Portland led by as many as 19 points in the first half, but the Thunder pulled to 80-77 early in the fourth quarter. Oklahoma City could not get closer, and Lillard hit a 30-footer to extend the Blazers’ lead to 89-81 with 6 minutes 38 seconds left.Westbrook appeared to hurt his right knee or ankle and grimaced while trying to walk it off. Trainers attended to him on the bench at the next timeout but he returned and his layup closed the gap to 91-87 with just under four minutes left.ROCKETS 122, JAZZ 90 James Harden had 29 points and 10 assists to help host Houston rout Utah on Sunday night in Game 1 of their Western Conference series.The fourth-seeded Rockets had a double-digit lead for most of the game, but the fifth-seeded Jazz pulled to 5 behind midway through the third quarter before Houston used a big run to pull away. Rudy Gobert had 22 points and 12 rebounds for the Jazz.It is the second consecutive year these teams have met in the postseason; Houston eliminated Utah in five games in the second round last season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — The longest active streak of missing the NBA playoffs belongs to Sacramento, where general manager Vlade Divac has been trying to return the Kings to the league's elite over the last four seasons.Back when the slick-passing Serbian big man was in the paint, the Kings had quite the run. For his impact on the NBA as one of the pioneering Eastern Europeans, Divac was announced Saturday as one of the 12 honorees in the 2019 class of the Basketball Hall of Fame."We created something special there, the first day of training camp that led us," said Divac, who played for Sacramento from 1998-2004, with a peak in 2002 when the Kings lost to the Los Angeles Lakers in overtime of Game 7 of the Western Conference finals. "For six years, we were the most exciting team in the league and really played basketball the right way."The class will be enshrined at the Hall of Fame in Springfield, Massachusetts, on Sept. 6. Selected this year with Divac were NBA players Carl Braun, Chuck Cooper, Bobby Jones, Sidney Moncrief, Jack Sikma and Paul Westphal, NBA coach Bill Fitch, NBA contributor Al Attles, WNBA player Teresa Weatherspoon, the 1957-59 teams from Tennessee A&I and the Wayland Baptist University program.Divac, who was elected directly by the international committee, played 16 years in the NBA, including eight with the Lakers. The 7-foot-1 Divac had his jersey retired by the Kings after helping them start a streak of eight straight postseason appearances upon his arrival. They never advanced past the conference finals, a surge that coincided with the Lakers dynasty of Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal.One of Divac's fellow starters on those Kings teams was Chris Webber, who wasn't included in the class. Now an analyst for CBS Sports, Webber quickly sent Divac a congratulatory message after the announcement in Minneapolis at the Final Four."For the last five or six days when I found out I was going to be there, I was only hoping that he was going to be next me," Divac said. "I'm sure it's going to happen down the road, but it would be awesome if he was right next to me."Moncrief and Sikma, who were elected by the North American committee, were teammates with the Milwaukee Bucks from 1986-89. The seven-time All-Star Sikma, who won an NBA title in his second season with the Seattle SuperSonics, set a record with the Bucks in 1988 as the only center in history to lead the league in free-throw percentage at 92.2. Sikma is now a consultant with the Toronto Raptors, who are in second place in the Eastern Conference behind the resurgent Bucks."My hope is we get in the conference finals and we're facing the Bucks, and then I'll kind of keep my thoughts to myself a little bit," Sikma said, smiling.Moncrief was a five-time All-Star and two-time NBA Defensive Player of the Year in the mid-1980s for the Bucks, who lost in the Eastern Conference finals three times during his career. Moncrief also reached the Final Four in his final season at Arkansas, 1978-79, under coach Eddie Sutton, for whom he gave credit for instilling in him the fundamentals that carried him to professional success."You'd take a four-hour practice: three hours on defense. Seriously," Moncrief said. "And they wonder why I couldn't shoot when I got to the NBA! I didn't shoot. I just played defense."Weatherspoon, who was elected by the women's committee, was a five-time WNBA All-Star for the New York Liberty who was the first in the league to reach 1,000 points and 1,000 assists. She led Louisiana Tech to an NCAA championship in 1988.Jones and Westphal were the other players elected by the North American committee. Jones was an eight-time NBA All-Defensive first team pick and four-time All-Star with the Philadelphia 76ers, winning a title with them in 1983. Westphal was a five-time All-Star who won a championship with the Boston Celtics in 1974.Fitch coached in the NBA for 255 seasons, leading the Celtics to a title in 1981 and still holding the franchise's best winning percentage at .738. The other election by the North American committee was the Tennessee A&I teams that won NAIA championships in 1957, 1958 and 1959. The program now known as Tennessee State was the first to win three straight titles in any college division.Attles was a direct election by the contributor committee. He played for the Philadelphia Warriors from 1960-71 and later was a coach, executive and ambassador for the organization. Cooper, who died in 1984, was directly elected by the early African American pioneers committee. He was an All-American at Duquesne in 1950 and the first African American player drafted by an NBA team. Braun, directly elected by the veterans committee, died in 2010. He was a five-time NBA All-Star who won a title with the Boston Celtics in 1962.Wayland Baptist, elected directly by the women's veterans committee, was among the first women's programs to award scholarships. Under the guidance of coach Harley Redin, the small school in West Texas won 131 straight games from 1953-58 and 10 national championships overall.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDURHAM, N.C. — Zion Williamson is leaving Duke after one high-flying season to enter the NBA draft.Widely projected as the top overall pick in the June draft, the AP national player of the year announced his decision Monday.The 6-foot-7, 285-pound Williamson captivated all of college basketball with his freakish, once-in-a-generation athleticism, his energy at both ends of the floor and his omnipresent charisma.The Atlantic Coast Conference player and rookie of the year averaged 22.6 points — tied for the league lead with teammate RJ Barrett — and 8.9 rebounds. Along the way, he became the face of college basketball this season, routinely coming up with at least one highlight-reel play or show-stopping dunk per game.His decision to turn pro came as no surprise. In fact, he spent the season greeting NBA chatter with a playful wink and a knowing nod.He said it would be "dope" to play on a hypothetical New York Knicks team with Kyrie Irving and Kevin Durant. Upon learning that LeBron James and Stephen Curry were talking about him during All-Star weekend, he responded that he's "hoping to be there competing against them next year."During his lone college season, he helped the Blue Devils earn the No. 1 ranking in the final AP Top 25 and the top overall seed in the NCAA Tournament. Duke was knocked out by Michigan State in the East Regional final.Now that he's headed to the NBA, one key subplot to follow is which sneaker company will land his endorsement.In one of the signature moments of the season, Williamson blew out his left Nike shoe — the PG 2.5, the signature shoe of Oklahoma City star Paul George — and sprained his right knee in the opening minute of what became a lopsided home loss to rival North Carolina.The impact was immediate — Nike's stock price took a hit the next day, and the shoe company sent a team of representatives to campus to investigate. When Williamson returned roughly three weeks later for the ACC Tournament, he wore a pair of modified size-15 Nikes from the signature line of Irving, a Boston Celtics All-Star and former one-and-done player at Duke.Williamson joins Cam Reddish and Barrett as classmates headed to the pros after one season. Point guard Tre Jones says he will return to school for his sophomore year.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOSTON — Terrence Ross had 26 points, Nikola Vucevic added 25 points and 12 rebounds and the Orlando Magic rallied past the Boston Celtics 116-108 on Sunday night to clinch their first playoff berth in seven years.Evan Fournier added 24 points for Orlando (41-40), which last made the postseason during the 2011-12 season. Sunday's victory also gave the Magic their first regular-season sweep over Boston since 1996-97.Even with the loss, the Celtics (48-33) clinched at least the fourth seed and home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs just before tip-off. That came courtesy of Brooklyn's win over Indiana.Kyrie Irving had 23 points for Boston. Al Horford finished with 18 points and Gordon Hayward added 16 off the bench.The Magic erased a 13-point first-half deficit and took an 83-78 lead into the fourth quarter. They kept it going, starting the final period on an 11-2 run, which included nine points by Ross.Boston responded with run of its own and tied the game at 106 on a 3-pointer by Irving with 2:50 remaining.The Magic kept attacking.Fournier got free in the lane and dunked over Terry Rozier to put the Magic back in front. The Celtics turned it over on their next possession. That was followed by an Aaron Gordon layup on the other end that made it 110-106.Celtics coach Brad Stevens said before the game that the Indiana outcomes wouldn't affect how much he played his starters against Orlando.But there clearly was interest in Boston's locker room beforehand, as evidenced in the television tuned to the Pacers-Nets matchup.As for his rotations, Stevens was true to his word and played his starters their normal minutes.It proved costly.Jayson Tatum limped off the court at the six-minute mark of the first quarter with a left shin contusion and did not return.Marcus Smart left with 6:15 remaining in the third, helped off by trainers and holding his left side after banging hips with Vucevic. He was diagnosed with a left hip contusion.Stevens will almost certainly rest both during Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.TIP-INSMagic: Vucevic had his 60th double-double of the season.Celtics: Hayward has now scored in double-figures in eight consecutive games.UP NEXTMagic: Regular-season finale at Charlotte Tuesday.Celtics: Regular-season finale at Washington Wednesday.___Advertisement
