AdvertisementSupported by76ers 145, Nets 123 | Series tied, 1-1By Kelly WhitesideAfter the Philadelphia 76ers were booed off their home court in the opener of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series, Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson had a feeling that they would punch back hard in Game 2.“We expect a haymaker,” Atkinson said. “They’re too good, too well-coached. How are we going to react to it?” Atkinson said. As it turned out, not very well.Propelled by a 51-point third quarter that tied an N.B.A. playoff record set by the Los Angeles Lakers back in 1962, the 76ers flattened the Nets, 145-123, on Monday night to even their series at a game apiece. The 145 points by the Sixers also set a playoff franchise record; likewise it was the most points the Nets have allowed in a playoff game.It was that kind of night.The Nets had looked strong early in the game, trailing by just a point at halftime — 65-64 — but then came the 51-point onslaught in the third quarter. “I thought we did a good job holding the fort in the first half,” Atkinson said. “The third quarter was the story of the game.”Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown said he thought the 76ers’ defense was the difference in the game, although the final score would suggest otherwise. Still, he cited guard Ben Simmons’s play against Nets star D’Angelo Russell, who was held scoreless in the second half.Simmons finished with 18 points, 10 rebounds and 12 assists after struggling in Game 1. Meanwhile, Joel Embiid had 23 points and 10 points for the Sixers after being limited to 24 minutes in Game 1.In Game 2, he looked more comfortable, bullying Nets center Jarrett Allen with his big body and sharp elbows, though one of those elbows led to him being charged with a flagrant foul.In any case, there was no booing by the Philadelphia fans on Monday. By the fourth quarter, with the game in hand for their team, the stands began to empty. With the series now tied at 1-1, the 76ers head to Brooklyn for games on Thursday and Saturday. And they would seem to have the momentum.Indeed, with their dominating win on Monday, the 76ers distanced themselves from their playoff-opening flop and looked more like a team with the East’s most talented starting lineup — Embiid, Simmons, Jimmy Butler, Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick.Philadelphia also distanced itself from the criticism that erupted when 76ers center Amir Johnson was caught by TV cameras scrolling through his phone late in the fourth quarter of Game 1 with his team trailing. Johnson turned to Embiid on the bench and showed him the message on his phone. Johnson was subsequently fined for “conduct detrimental to the team” and he apologized in a statement.Simmons also faced criticism after the series opener for his comments about the boos that filled Wells Fargo Center as the Nets pulled away. “If you’re going to boo, then stay on that side,” Simmons said. “That’s how I feel. If you’re a Sixers fan and you’re going to boo, stay on that side.”On Monday, those boos were replaced by cheers. And by a lot of Sixers baskets.And for the Nets, it was a humbling experience. Certainly, the third quarter was. “We can’t have another third quarter like we did,” Allen said. “We just let it blow open.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Joel Embiid is not playing for the Philadelphia 76ers on Thursday night in Game 3 against the Brooklyn Nets because of a sore left knee.Embiid warmed up before the game but the 76ers announced shortly before the start that the All-Star center wouldn't be available. Greg Monroe was listed as their starter.Embiid was troubled by the knee late in the regular season and was listed as doubtful for Game 1 of the series. But he played in both games in Philadelphia, collecting a pair of double-doubles.The series is tied 1-1.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressD’Angelo Russell flashed some postseason magic, playing like the All-Star leader the Nets needed with 26 points, and Caris LeVert scored 23, leading the visiting Nets to a 111-102 victory on Saturday over the Philadelphia 76ers in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.Jimmy Butler scored 36 points and saved the third-seeded Sixers, favored by many to at least reach the East semifinals, from losing by 25. Joel Embiid slogged his way through 24 minutes on a troubled left knee that cost him much of the final month of the regular season and managed 22 points and 15 rebounds. Ben Simmons came up small against Russell, his high school teammate, who scored 19 second-half points.Russell, LeVert and Spencer Dinwiddie gave the Sixers fits off the dribble and buried open looks from 3-point range, and a team that got hot late and just made the playoffs suddenly has the upper hand on the road over a 51-win team stocked with stars.“I think earlier in the season, especially when we were struggling, we’d lose games like that,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said.With Philadelphia behind by 16 late in the fourth quarter, Amir Johnson was caught by television cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone. Johnson, who was inactive for the game, showed Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid the device into a pocket of his warm-up pants.“I just looked down because he said his daughter was extremely sick and he was checking on her,” Embiid said.Johnson issued an apology after the game, and the Sixers fined him an unspecified amount. It was a fitting episode in a game that the Sixers seemed to have phoned in.Russell hit a string of jumpers in the third quarter, never letting the Sixers seriously chip away at the lead. LeVert’s third 3-pointer in the fourth made it a 16-point game, and there was no looking back for one of the biggest wins since the sixth-seeded Nets moved to Brooklyn.Dinwiddie and DeMarre Carroll made consecutive 3-pointers during a 12-0 first-half run. LeVert hit two straight 3s for a 14-point lead, and the Sixers were soundly booed off the court.“We all got to do a better job,” Embiid said. “Us. The fans. We have to bring the fun.”WARRIORS 121, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 38 points and made eight 3-pointers, reaching the highest total in postseason history, and top-seeded Golden State began its quest for a three-peat by winning at home against Los Angeles on a night when tempers flared.Kevin Durant and Patrick Beverley were ejected with 4 minutes 41 seconds to go, 19 seconds after they received double technicals when Durant stripped Beverley and the Clippers guard fell into the scorer’s table.They both became enraged again, and the official Ed Malloy immediately sent them both to the locker room. Durant high-fived fans as he left.Curry was 8 for 12 from beyond the arc, passing Ray Allen (385) for career postseason 3-pointers with 386.MAGIC 104, RAPTORS 101 D. J. Augustin scored 25 points, including the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 3.5 seconds left, and seventh-seeded Orlando won at second-seeded Toronto in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round series.Kawhi Leonard, who led the Raptors with 25 points, got a final shot but missed the rim with his 3-point attempt from the top. The Raptors are now 2-14 in playoff series openers.WALTON TO COACH KINGS One day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers, Luke Walton reached an agreement on a four-year deal to coach the Sacramento Kings, according to a person familiar with the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Lakers’ president this week in part because he did not want to go through with firing Walton, as had been expected around the N.B.A. for weeks. On Friday, Walton and the Lakers mutually agreed to part ways with two seasons left on his contract — with Walton knowing that the Kings, after firing Coach Dave Joerger on Thursday, were eager to hire him.The Lakers have the former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and the Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams at their top of their list to succeed Walton. Lue coached the Lakers’ LeBron James for two and a half seasons in Cleveland.(MARC STEIN)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — The Philadelphia 76ers are listing Joel Embiid as doubtful for Game 4 of their first-round series against the Brooklyn Nets.Embiid has been bothered by a sore left knee, but was able to play in the first two games of the series. He warmed up before Game 3 on Thursday night before it was decided that he couldn't play.Embiid worked out Friday at the 76ers' practice in New York but coach Brett Brown said he didn't know and didn't have a gut feeling about whether his All-Star center would be able to go Saturday afternoon.The 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory without Embiid and lead the series 2-1. Greg Monroe started at center and had nine points and 13 rebounds.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe Philadelphia 76ers made a bold move in the early hours of Wednesday morning to try to seize control of the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference by trading for Tobias Harris, the Los Angeles Clippers’ dynamic forward.In his second trade this season for a player who can become a free agent in July, Philadelphia General Manager Elton Brand surrendered two future first-round picks and two second-round picks in a six-player deal. The clear headliner, though, is Harris, who will join Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, J.J. Redick and Jimmy Butler, November’s acquisition, in what threatens to be the league’s most potent starting lineup outside of Golden State.The cost for Philadelphia was significant. The Sixers gave up their first-round pick in 2020 and an unprotected first-round pick in 2021, which they have from the Miami Heat, along with Wilson Chandler, Mike Muscala and Landry Shamet, a rookie guard. In return, Philadelphia will receive Harris, Boban Marjanovic and Mike Scott.“We are in a unique position to contend now, and we think this trade positions us well for the postseason,” Brand said in a statement.Philadelphia entered Wednesday’s play as the East’s No. 5 seed at 34-20, six games behind Milwaukee (39-13). The Sixers’ twofold challenge now will be establishing a chemistry among its new five-man core in the 28 games left before the playoffs and then re-signing Harris and Butler this summer after making two of this season’s biggest trades to get them.Harris emerged as an All-Star contender for the Clippers this season by averaging 20.9 points and 7.9 rebounds per game. His move to Philadelphia gives the Sixers another much-needed shooter (.496 from the field and .434 from 3-point range) alongside Redick.In making this trade, the Clippers ultimately decided that the draft picks Philadelphia offered were too valuable to pass up as they prepare for a big summer in which they are widely considered to be the league’s strongest threat to lure Kawhi Leonard away from the Toronto Raptors in free agency.The Clippers, at 30-25, have been one of this season’s surprise teams and sit at No. 8 in the Western Conference. But earlier this week, they also were named as one of four teams that Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans is willing to sign with long-term. This deal adds two more potentially enticing trade chips for the Clippers to offer the Pelicans for Davis — who has requested a trade — or to use in pursuit of other elite players.With Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline approaching, teams across the league, especially Philadelphia’s top rivals in the East, are running out of time to make their own moves to try to keep pace.The Boston Celtics, according to numerous reports, have been urging the Pelicans not to trade Davis until after the season, since league rules prevent Boston from trading for Davis while both he and Celtics guard Kyrie Irving are playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. The Toronto Raptors, meanwhile, have reportedly expressed trade interest in the very available Memphis Grizzlies duo of Marc Gasol and Mike Conley.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellSometime in the third quarter, as the Philadelphia 76ers rained down 3-pointers like mortar shots and Ben Simmons, a giant point guard possessed of preternatural passing ability and a bricklayer’s touch, carved through the Nets, a thought occurred:This was not the playoff homecoming of the Nets’ dreams.The Nets tried but never really contended Thursday night. The men from Philadelphia simply had too much talent and too many big bodies on their way to a 2-1 first-round series lead, and that was a shame. Saddled with the worst attendance in the N.B.A. this season, Barclays Center in Brooklyn was packed to the gills with fans waving towels and hooting and yelling. The joint was packed and joyfully rocking.The Nets are a pretty good pro hoops team in a city where terrible often rules the roost. Their coach, Kenny Atkinson, a likable and intelligent basketball lifer, took over a team that was expected to dwell in the cellar and won more games, 42, than it lost, 40, this season.That was in contrast to the disaster masquerading as a basketball team at Madison Square Garden, where the Knicks’ management team crafted a grotesquely bad team that finished 17-65. (Losing no longer impresses because the Knicks have posted losing records in 15 of the last 18 years.) In a sign that God may have a strange sense of humor, those same Knicks are widely rumored to be a favorite to gain the services of the brilliant forward Kevin Durant, who can become a free agent this summer.But enough about that other New York team.After falling into a deep ditch under previous management, the Brooklyn Nets have executed a slow, steady rebuild, instilling discipline and a sense of Nets basketball, which is to say a fluid, slashing style that relies on small forwards and guards bolstered by lean, swift centers who block shots and rebound and run. Their general manager, Sean Marks, a former San Antonio Spurs assistant and executive, has picked up talented role players much as a fishmonger sorts through a barrel and plucks out tasty sea bass.The Nets have a fine quartet of guards and small forwards, D’Angelo Russell and Spencer Dinwiddie, Joe Harris and Caris LeVert, creative players all, who can probe and find seams in defenses and stroke jump shots.So this game on Thursday offered a chance to draw the measure of a Nets team rising more quickly than expected and of a Sixers team that hopes to compete for a championship. On that last point I walked away nursing doubts.The Sixers for six years were an experimental laboratory, their former general manager Sam Hinkie occupying a reputational land between supposed genius and madman. They lost intentionally and insistently, and accumulated top draft picks, not the least the 6-foot-10 point guard Simmons and the splendidly talented big man Joel Embiid. Sixers ownership eventually discarded Hinkie. But that team now is expected to contend, and the current general manager made a series of trades toward that end this season.Yet a week into playoff season, the engine of that 76ers machine is coughing. Embiid has come up with a chronically sore knee. That is a problem for any athlete, much less a 7-foot, 270-pound center. The assumption Thursday night was that he would play, an impression reinforced when Embiid took the court an hour before the game and shot around. He shot fadeaways and spun like a dervish and put up graceful hook shots.Then minutes before tipoff, the 76ers’ coaches shook their heads. Nope, his knee was too sore. Embiid was sitting. That left the big man in a bad mood. Moments before the tip, as teammates walked over to dap him up and slap his back, Embiid could barely look at them or the court.Simmons is no less talented, and perhaps more baffling. He is a brilliant athlete with stunning vision and dribbling ability. When he breaks swiftly into the open court, his passing takes on a sleight-of-hand quality, so quick that you notice the ball only as it lands in the hands of a teammate.Alas, his shooting edges toward disastrous, and his confidence in it is sodden. Rather than put his hand under the ball, he puts it off to the side, his left elbow sticking out like a chicken wing. He practices his shooting before games with often unsightly results. On Thursday evening, he stood in the corner and took pass after pass from an assistant coach and shot and shot. He made, by my count, five baskets in 15 attempts. Then he took 3-point shots from the shoulder of the key, going 1 for 6.You wanted to cover your eyes and suggest that maybe he should stick to layups. Yet by shooting layups and hook shots and dunks, he finished the game with 31 points and 9 assists.He is the best fundamentally unsound player in the N.B.A. And you wonder how this still unformed 22-year-old star and a gimpy-knee center can stumble into the N.B.A. finals.In a strange way, on this night, Embiid’s absence liberated his teammates. They shot 40 percent from 3-point range to the Nets’ 20 percent, and they outrebounded them, too.If the 76ers have a playoff advantage, it may reside with their veteran talent, in particular Tobias Harris, Jimmy Butler and J.J. Redick. During a Nets run late in the third quarter, Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown called a timeout and drew up a play. Then you saw Redick stand up and start talking and pointing. Then Butler leaned in and interjected. Brown fell silent, then nodded in agreement. Fine, he said, we’ll run it differently.As they walked out onto the court after the timeout, Butler and Redick kept talking, resembling two professors discussing a knotty physics problem. “That was pros talking to pros,” Brown said later.The Nets are a young crew, not unduly burdened by egos and attitude. But they are not yet at a pros-talking-to-pros level. They are a promising troupe still in search of a leading man.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballThe rare N.B.A. star willing to lean into his role as a villain, Butler, briefly back in the city he scorned, is ready to absorb fans’ anger.By Marc SteinJimmy Butler knows what’s coming on Saturday night in Minneapolis. He understands, relishes and even encourages the looming prospect of the chilliest welcome any visiting N.B.A. player is bound to receive this season.“They’re going to boo me,” Butler said of the Minnesota fans who watched him force his way out of town via a trade to the Philadelphia 76ers in November — months after Butler led the woebegone Timberwolves to their first playoff berth in 14 seasons.“I would boo me, too. I’m not going to lie to you.”Now a key member of what is widely regarded as the most potent starting lineup on the N.B.A. map outside of Golden State, Butler will be back at Target Center for the first time since the trade turmoil that captivated the league for the first two months of the season.Butler insisted he was unfazed by what awaited him, and went on to suggest that a number of his Philadelphia colleagues, as well as some longtime friends who plan to be in attendance, will partake in the inevitable hostilities.“I might actually join in on the boos,” Butler said.Those who have spent any time around the rugged swingman surely don’t doubt it. At a time when N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver openly frets about player happiness — and when standouts such as Boston’s Kyrie Irving and Golden State’s Kevin Durant routinely rail against the approach of some of the news media — Butler is the rare star who savors the game’s edgy side and has embraced his portrayal as a villain.“I love it,” Butler said in a phone interview, repeating the phrase three times — including once with a profanity for emphasis. “Who wants to be loved all the time?“It’s O.K. It’s fine. I don’t need everybody to like me. I know who I am. I can’t say that enough. I know what I’m about. I know where my heart is. People will say, ‘He’s this way, or he’s that way,’ but nobody knows except for the people around me every day. Ask them and they’ll tell you differently.”Elton Brand, the 76ers’ general manager, certainly falls within that category, describing Butler as “a caring person” who has quickly endeared himself “not only to his teammates but to our whole business operations staff and in the community.”As a first-year general manager, Brand had his own reservations before going through with the first major move of his tenure, having watched chaos engulf the Timberwolves from afar — with no shortage of the noise coming from Butler himself after news leaked of the mid-September trade request he made in private.But when Brand did his research, consulting former coaches and executives who had worked with Butler, along with former players he knew well who had firsthand knowledge, such as Nazr Mohammed and Mike Dunleavy Jr., he received little in the way of dissenting feedback.“Even with the story that was reported, that wasn’t a big deal,” Brand said, referring to an ESPN report in January that asserted Butler “aggressively challenged” Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown. “He didn’t curse. He wasn’t loud. It was his reputation following him.”Butler, 29, admitted in a recent interview with Yahoo Sports’s Chris Haynes that he is a “confrontational” teammate, but that he is also trying to be more selective in showing his blunt nature as he gets older. It should be noted that, as Brand found, Butler has also been a largely popular teammate in his stints with the Chicago Bulls and Team U.S.A. — and, frankly, with numerous Timberwolves apart from the All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.Butler took a hit in some precincts after informing the since-fired coach with whom he’s so closely associated — Tom Thibodeau — that he was no longer interested in trying to nurture Towns and Andrew Wiggins and wanted out of Minnesota. One example of the damage: Butler is one of the top 12 players in the Eastern Conference, but East coaches snubbed him as a reserve for the All-Star Game in February.Yet Butler plays on, insisting he would “do nothing over” in Minnesota and reveling in the knowledge that for the first time in his career, he’s on a team capable of getting to the N.B.A. finals.“I will tell you that we’ve got a lot of talent,” Butler said.The Sixers haven’t established the required consistency to earn the label of East favorites, going 11-6 since the All-Star break with middling placement in both offensive (18th) and defensive (12th) efficiency in that span. Butler, though, is doing what he can to make it work, sacrificing in a manner that would seem to invalidate some of the criticism.Philadelphia followed its trade for Butler on Nov. 12 by acquiring Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers on Feb. 6, giving Brown two All-Star-caliber players to team with the dynamic duo of Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons and the shooter extraordinaire J.J. Redick. In the first 20 games since, when those five players share the floor, Butler has scaled back more than anyone, taking fewer shots (46) than the other four — with Embiid by far in the lead (95 shots).Of course, in fourth quarters, Butler has emerged as the most reliable offensive option of the quintet, shooting 12 for 18 when all five play together, highlighted by last week’s game-winning jumper against Boston after the Celtics had won six of the teams’ seven previous meetings. The natural drop in Butler’s per-game averages this season, playing for such a loaded team, tends to overshadow the fact that he still ranks 16th in the league in a category (Real Plus-Minus) strongly associated with team success.“He’s a special talent at closing and winning games — and not just offensively,” Brand said. “He’s just a winner.”An indication of Butler’s true standing in the game will come July 1, when he becomes an unrestricted free agent for the first time. Brand has said repeatedly that he hopes to keep Philadelphia’s new core four together, but Butler is expected to attract serious interest from both Los Angeles teams as well as the Nets. The Clippers’ special adviser Jerry West, to name one prominent fan, is said to be a longtime admirer of Butler’s two-way impact.Not that Butler is prepared to discuss much about the future. He brushed off free-agency talk in our conversation and claimed that he didn’t even know Minnesota was on this week’s calendar until I told him.He stuck mostly to peripheral subjects. Those include Butler’s devotion to playing dominoes and Uno, his friendship with “the best soccer player in the world” — Paris St.-Germain’s Brazilian star Neymar — and the trusty American football he travels around with. Butler said he plans to toss the football with other 76ers with greater regularity during the playoffs.“I’m telling you — it takes away some of that pressure,” Butler said.Thibodeau still lives in Minneapolis in the wake of his Jan. 6 firing, but politely declined to comment about Butler’s visit. Butler, for his part, continues to refer to Thibodeau as “my guy.” He said they maintained regular contact.Although Butler remains unwilling to dig deeply into the reasons he pushed so hard for an exit so soon after the dramatic impact he had in his lone full season with the Wolves, give him this: He is prepared to take whatever pent-up frustration has been stored up for him in the Twin Cities.Rather than ask for forgiveness from the locals, or even civility, Butler said: “I did what I did. I’m cool with it. I’m in a good place.”He has only one request for the basketball public: Pick someone else to win the East besides the up-and-down Sixers.“Don’t pick us,” Butler said. “I hope people say we’re going to lose in the first round. I don’t want anybody to think we’re that good because I think it makes us play a little bit harder.”Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Los Angeles Lakers and coach Luke Walton mutually parted ways on Friday, general manager Rob Pelinka announced in a statement.Walton's status had been tenuous, even before Magic Johnson resigned as president of basketball operations on Tuesday. Lakers owner Jeanie Buss was reportedly ready to OK a departure after previously being fully supportive of Walton."We would like to thank Luke for his dedicated service over the last three years," Pelinka said in a statement. "We wish Luke and his family the best of luck moving forward."Walton compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three seasons."I want to thank Jeanie Buss and the Buss family for giving me the opportunity to coach the Lakers," Walton said in a statement. "This franchise and the city will always be special to me and my family."The Lakers went 37-45 this season in a disappointing first campaign of the LeBron James era.Los Angeles was 20-14 when James suffered a groin injury during a Christmas Day win over the Golden State Warriors and the team's fortunes plummeted from there.Walton may not be unemployed for a long period as the Sacramento Kings are reportedly interested in interviewing him for their opening.The Kings went 39-43 this season and fired coach Dave Joerger. They have an impressive young group led by point guard De'Aaron Fox, shooting guard Buddy Hield and power forward Marvin Bagley III.Among the candidates for the Lakers' post is former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and Philadelphia 76ers assistant coach Monty Williams.Lue coached James for parts of three seasons in Cleveland -- including the franchise's 2016 NBA Finals title -- while Williams coached the New Orleans Pelicans for five seasons.Williams also is reported a candidate for the Sacramento job.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Dwyane Wade was hurting, sitting on the training table trying to get enough treatment to get him on the floor one last time.A couple of hours later, he looked like a guy capable of playing well beyond the final night of his career.Wade had 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in his last NBA game, which the Brooklyn Nets won by beating the Miami Heat 113-94 on Wednesday night to finish 42-40 and clinch the No. 6 seed in the Eastern Conference.With close friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony leading the cheers from their courtside seats, Wade had his fifth career triple-double in three quarters. He fittingly secured it with a pass to Udonis Haslem, his teammate of 15 years who plays sparingly now and made his only start of the season."I was like, I don't know why, but everybody feels like now you've got to go out and score 60 in your last game because Kobe did it," said Wade, wearing a sparkling gold jacket and gold sneakers. "So hopefully I took the bar all the way back down and say let's go get a triple-double, that's easier."A night after scoring 30 points in his final game in Miami, Wade showed one more time that he's walking away with his skills intact.He played 36 minutes, dribbling out the shot clock the final time he had the ball before checking out with 10 seconds remaining. Then it was time for a lengthy postgame celebration on the court with teammates and friends."The man went out with a triple-double. Don't let that go unnoticed. He had a triple-double," All-Star D'Angelo Russell said. "He is a guy that paved the way for a lot of us. He's been with that franchise for that long period of time. He's Mr. Miami."Russell had 21 points on seven 3-pointers for the Nets, who will face the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers beginning this weekend in their first postseason appearance since 2015, one that seemed unlikely when they were 8-18 in December. But they went 34-22 from there for their first winning record since going 44-38 in 2013-14 — when they were knocked out by Wade's Heat in the second round."Special night," Nets coach Kenny Atkinson said. "Pretty amazing season so far."The game mattered only to the Nets, who quickly ended any fears of finishing seventh and having to face the Toronto Raptors in the first round.But that was secondary to a last chance to celebrate Wade, the three-time NBA champion who was ending his 16th and final NBA season.He was loudly cheered from the moment he emerged alone from the tunnel for pregame layups. Fans — egged on at one point by Paul and Anthony — chanted "We want Wade! We want Wade!" when he was on the bench, even though the 37-year-old guard had played a season-high 35 minutes Tuesday and coach Erik Spoelstra warned before the game that it probably wouldn't be that way again.But there was no keeping Wade down for long. It took him a little bit to get going, as Jarrett Allen added Wade to the list of stars whose shots he's blocked this season — a list that included James."I loved seeing CP and Melo over there getting the crowd going to get Dwyane back in there and Dwyane comes from the old-school NBA," Spoelstra said. "That was pre-load management, so we were not load managing him tonight and I was not talking to my sports scientist whether he could go, even though I walked in and saw him on that training table an hour before the game and he did not look fit to go, at all. But he's cut from a different cloth."The Heat hoped the final game would matter, but the Nets and Orlando Magic had clinched spots over the weekend to leave only one spot left coming into the last week. Miami was eliminated from contention for it despite its victory Tuesday."For me, I'm happy with this season," Wade said. "Unfortunately for our organization and our team, we weren't able to put ourselves in a position to win enough games to be in the playoffs, but for what I wanted for this season, I'm happy to say that I completed that."TIP-INSHeat: Haslem finished with 12 points and 11 rebounds. ... Wade passed Elgin Baylor (23,149 points) to move into 29th place on the NBA's career list. He finished with 23,165.Nets: Starters Joe Harris (toe) and DeMarre Carroll (right wrist) sat out, though Atkinson said they would be ready for the playoff opener. ... Shabazz Napier scored 20 points off the bench.THE LAST JERSEYWade has been exchanging jerseys with players after games this season, but there was one missing. Anthony, who helped persuade Wade to return this season, didn't play long this season before parting ways with Houston. So Wade gave his final one to him."I didn't get an opportunity to play against Melo this year and exchange jerseys with him," Wade said. "That was a missing piece out of this whole season, so everything worked out great for him being here, for me having an opportunity to give him my jersey."___UP NEXTHeat: The offseason.Nets: A first-round playoff matchup against the Philadelphia 76ers.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBen Simmons scored a playoff-career-high 31 points and handed out nine assists to lead the visiting Philadelphia 76ers past the Brooklyn Nets 131-115 on Thursday in New York for a 2-1 lead in an Eastern Conference opening-round playoff series.Simmons, whose wayward shooting was the subject of a "Missing" poster outside of Barclays Center pregame, made 11 of 13 attempts from the field and 9 of 11 from the foul line.Tobias Harris also scored a playoff-career-high, adding 29 points to go along with 16 rebounds, and JJ Redick added 26 points for Philadelphia.Sixers center Joel Embiid was scratched before the game due to left knee soreness. Greg Monroe, who signed late in the regular season, received the emergency start in place of Embiid and contributed nine points and 13 boards.Warriors 132, Clippers 105Kevin Durant exploded for 38 points, and Golden State never let up after building an early lead, cruising to a win at Los Angeles to take a 2-1 edge in their Western Conference first-round playoff series.The Warriors, who blew a 31-point, second-half lead in Game 3, ran up 41 first-quarter points, building as much as a 19-point advantage in the first 12 minutes.Stephen Curry, who battled foul trouble most of the night, complemented Durant with 21 points in 20 minutes for the Warriors. Ivica Zubac had a team-high 18 points to go with a game-high 15 rebounds for the Clippers.Spurs 118, Nuggets 108Derrick White poured in a career-high 36 points on 15-of-21 shooting to lift San Antonio to a win over visiting Denver in Game 3 of a Western Conference first-round playoff series.San Antonio, the seventh seed in the West, grabbed a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven series. The Spurs led just 89-87 in the first minute of the fourth quarter before they pulled away, forging a 19-4 run that was capped by a White 3-pointer with 5:57 left that gave San Antonio a 108-91 advantage.DeMar DeRozan added 25 points, 21 of those in the second half, while LaMarcus Aldridge contributed 18 points and 11 rebounds for the Spurs. Nikola Jokic paced Denver with 22 points, and Malik Beasley added 20.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe NBA rescinded technical fouls assessed to Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant and Los Angeles Clippers forward JaMychal Green on Friday after reviewing a call made during Thursday night's game.Durant and Green were exchanging words during the third quarter when the double-technical was called, stunning both players.The decision to rescind was announced from the league's @NBAOfficial account on Twitter.The change was good for Durant, as he already received two technicals earlier in the series. An accumulation of seven technicals during the postseason carries an automatic one-game suspension. He had lobbied for the technicals to be rescinded after Thursday's 132-105 victory.--Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, who missed Game 3 of his team's first-round playoff series against the Brooklyn Nets on Thursday night because of left knee soreness, is listed as doubtful for Game 4 on Saturday. The NBA announced his status in its injury report.Embiid's status has digressed from the first three games when he was listed as questionable. He continues to deal with left knee tendinitis, a problem throughout the regular season, when he missed 14 of the Sixers' 24 games after the All-Star break.Despite Embiid's absence in Game 3, the visiting 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory over the host Nets to take a 2-1 lead. Greg Monroe started in Embiid's place and collected nine points on 4-for-13 shooting and grabbed 13 rebounds. Game 4 of the best-of-seven will also be played in Brooklyn before the series shifts to Philadelphia on Tuesday.--The status of Detroit Pistons forward Blake Griffin remains uncertain entering Saturday's Game 3 of the team's Eastern Conference first-round series against the Milwaukee Bucks.Griffin missed the first two games with a left knee injury, and coach Dwane Casey didn't shed any light on whether the six-time All-Star will return on Saturday for the eighth-seeded Pistons, who lost the first two games of the series in Milwaukee by an average of 28 points."Day-to-day. I'm not talking about Blake," Casey told reporters after Friday's practice. "Day-to-day. Same old words. Just like I am on coaching -- day-to-day."--Former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue was scheduled to interview with the Los Angeles Lakers for their head coaching vacancy, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.The Lakers fired coach Luke Walton last week after three seasons and a 98-148 record.Lue, who previously served as an assistant coach for the Boston Celtics, L.A. Clippers and Cavaliers, became head coach in Cleveland during the 2015-16 season after David Blatt was fired.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPHILADELPHIA — How's this for a blown call: Amir Johnson was busted showing Philadelphia 76ers All-Star teammate Joel Embiid his cellphone on the bench late in a Game 1 playoff loss.Johnson was caught by TV cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone late in the fourth quarter and the Sixers losing by double digits. Johnson showed Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid the device into his warmup pants pocket."I just looked down because he said his daughter was extremely sick and he was checking on her," Embiid said.The Sixers made the easy call and fined Johnson an unspecified amount for conduct detrimental to the team."It's not something that we are about," Sixers coach Brett Brown said.Johnson, who averaged 3.9 points in 51 games, was inactive and apologized for his mistake."I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions," he said. "I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."Embiid scored 22 points and had 15 rebounds and was a late addition to starting lineup because of tendinitis in his left knee that cost him most of the final month of the season.The Nets beat the Sixers 111-102 in Game 1 in a game that was a disaster for the organization before the opening tip.Sixers owner Josh Harris was very noncommittal on Brown's return for a seventh season on the bench if the team did not make a deep run in the playoffs. Harris said Brown was a "great coach" but fell well short of giving him a vote of confidence."We think he's the right leader to take us where we need to go in the playoffs," Harris said. "I'm focused on the Brooklyn Nets."But wait, there were more disasters.The Sixers trailed by 17, missed 22 of 25 3-pointers and played more like the castoffs of the early Process days under Brown than a team expected to contend for an Eastern Conference championship. Ben Simmons only took nine shots and scored nine points. JJ Redick and Tobias Harris continued the starters' malaise with only a combined four baskets and nine points.Simmons also blasted the 20,437 Sixers fans for booing the team for most of the game."If you're going to boo, then stay on that side," he said.Embiid said the voracious booing that was largely absent during the dark days of the Sixers 10-win season was tough to hear."I love the fans. I've never said anything about them. They show us a lot of love," Embiid said. "I understand why they're booing. But the fact that it's after every single miss when shots are not going to fall (every time). I'm fine. I'll play through anything."So to recap, the Sixers lost home-court advantage, got caught using a cellphone on the bench, admonished fans for booing and refused to give the head coach a vote of confidence.And that's a winner in Philly playoff Bingo.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCHICAGO — Joel Embiid had 20 points and 10 rebounds, JJ Redick scored 23 and the Philadelphia 76ers beat the Chicago Bulls 116-96 on Saturday night.Embiid dominated inside, Redick supplied the outside touch and the 76ers got back to winning after dropping three in a row, even though guard Jimmy Butler missed his second consecutive game because of back tightness. They also bumped their lead over idle Boston for the No. 3 seed in the Eastern Conference to two games.Embiid had five assists and blocked three shots in his second straight start after missing three in a row. The All-Star center has been dealing with a sore left knee, and the Sixers are managing his workload with the playoffs approaching.Redick nailed four 3-pointers. Tobias Harris added 16 points. Ben Simmons scored 14, and the 76ers pulled away in the third quarter after grabbing an eight-point halftime lead.JaKarr Sampson led Chicago with a career-high 29 points. But the Bulls lost for the sixth time in seven games.Outdueled by fellow MVP candidate Giannis Antetokounmpo in a loss to Milwaukee on Thursday, Embiid scored 14 as the 76ers grabbed a 57-49 halftime lead.He cut for a thunderous one-handed alley-oop dunk off a feed from Simmons with just over a minute left in the half. A four-point play by Redick got the lead up to 57-47 before Chicago's Walt Lemon Jr. drove for a layup in the closing seconds.The Sixers put the Bulls away in the third, outscoring them 29-19.TIP-INS76ers: Butler, who spent his first six seasons in Chicago, has missed three of the past four games. He was hurt in the Sixers' win at Minnesota on March 30 when he missed an alley-oop lob from Simmons.Bulls: G Zach LaVine (right knee tendinitis, bruised right thigh) indicated he will not play again this season, though the Bulls have not officially shut him down. "You have to evaluate the situation you're in right now," he said. "I think the risk versus reward of me playing right now is — you don't want to hurt yourself further with two games left in the season." LaVine missed his eighth game in a row Saturday. The Bulls host New York on Tuesday and wrap up the season at Philadelphia the following night. Coach Jim Boylen said Chicago has not made "a final decision that I can talk about" on LaVine, G Kris Dunn (strained back) or F Otto Porter Jr. (strained right rotator cuff). ... Boylen said F Lauri Markkanen continues to wear a heart monitor and tests have been "unremarkable." The 7-footer from Finland has started running, shooting and participating in non-contact parts of practice. The Bulls shut down Markkanen for the remainder of the season last week because of a rapid heart rate and fatigue.UP NEXT76ers: Visit Miami on Tuesday.Bulls: Host New York on Tuesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDwyane Wade was hoping to extend his legendary career into at least four postseason games.Instead, Wade's career will end Wednesday night when the Heat visit the playoff-bound Brooklyn Nets, who can clinch the sixth seed in the Eastern Conference.Wade, 37, announced his retirement on Sept 16 before training camp began, and this season has been a farewell tour filled with a few magical moments and some postgame jersey exchanges.Despite the good feelings of celebrating Wade's storied career, which began as the No. 5 overall draft pick in 2003 and includes NBA championships in 2006, 2012 and 2013, the Heat were unable to do enough to reach the postseason this year.Miami was formally eliminated Tuesday night as Wade's career was celebrated in front of home fans for the final time. Wade scored 30 points in his first start of the season in a 122-99 rout of the Philadelphia 76ers, exited to a standing ovation in the final minute and exchanged jerseys with Jimmy Butler."I'm still just amazed, even after all these years," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "I've seen him go into his bag of tricks so many times and just compartmentalize. But I'm truly amazed that he was able to perform like that tonight."Wade's final moments in front of the home fans occurred after the Detroit Pistons (40-41) stormed back from a 22-point deficit to beat the Memphis Grizzlies and eliminate the Heat (39-42).Miami will miss the postseason for the third time in five seasons since LeBron James returned to Cleveland in 2014.The Heat were one game over .500 three times but only reached the .500 mark once since Jan. 27 and were done in by losing four straight before Tuesday.Brooklyn (41-40) will face either third-seeded Philadelphia or second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs. The Nets are even with Orlando but own the head-the-head tiebreaker and would finish sixth with a win or if the Magic lose Wednesday at Charlotte.The Nets are in this position because of what unfolded in a challenging road back-to-back set. After getting a five-point win at Milwaukee on Saturday, Brooklyn led most of the way and celebrated clinching a playoff berth with a 108-96 victory at Indiana on Sunday."To be honest, it is a big moment for us and a big moment for the organization, from where we've come from in the last couple of years, the improvement that we've had individually and collectively," Nets guard Joe Harris said at practice Tuesday. "Just to clinch a playoff spot, it's a big moment for the organization for sure, and we're all very happy. But at the same time, we still have Miami left to finish out the year the right way, and we still want to make some noise in the playoffs and make it competitive."By clinching Sunday, the Nets are in a position to rest players, and two may be out. DeMarre Carroll will sit out due to a sprained right wrist while Harris -- who leads the NBA in 3-point shooting percentage -- is questionable because of a sore right foot.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday. He compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.--The Lakers, meanwhile, received permission to discuss their opening for head coach with Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams, ESPN reported, citing league sources.The Lakers are focusing on Williams and former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue, and general manager Rob Pelinka plans to speak with each candidate in the near future, league sources told ESPN.After spending the previous two years in the San Antonio Spurs' front office following the death of his wife Ingrid in 2016, Williams got back into coaching as Brett Brown's top assistant with the 76ers.--The 76ers fined veteran center Amir Johnson an undisclosed amount for showing teammate Joel Embiid his cell phone on the bench late in a 111-102 loss to the Brooklyn Nets in Game 1 of their playoff series.TV cameras caught Johnson on the bench in the fourth quarter, when the 76ers were 16 points down and he was scrolling through his phone. After showing Embiid something on his phone, Johnson put it into the pocket of his warm-ups."I apologize for having my phone on the bench in today's game," Johnson said in a statement released hours after the game by the 76ers. "I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions. I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."--Milwaukee Bucks forward Nikola Mirotic is expected to return from a thumb injury to play in Game 1 of the first-round series against the Detroit Pistons on Sunday.Mirotic missed the final 11 games of the regular season after fracturing his left thumb during a March 19 game against the Los Angeles Lakers.Mirotic fully participated in Friday's practice and took part in Saturday's non-contact practice. He had his thumb taped during both workouts.--The Washington Wizards announced they will not make a qualifying offer to free agent forward Devin Robinson after he was apparently arrested late Friday."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend a qualifying offer to him for the 2019-20 season," it read.According to Washington Post reporter Candace Buckner, who covers the Wizards, Robinson was involved in an altercation with Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills at a nightclub.--Toronto Raptors forward OG Anunoby could be sidelined until the Eastern Conference finals, should the team make it that far, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.Anunoby underwent an emergency appendectomy on Thursday.The second-year player, who is a key reserve for the Raptors, scored 7.0 points per game this season with an average of 2.9 rebounds. He played in 67 games this season, starting six of them, a year after he started 62 games as a rookie from Indiana.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHere are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — Dwyane Wade scored 30 points in the tribute-filled final home game of his career, and the Miami Heat defeated the Philadelphia 76ers 122-99 on Tuesday night.Bam Adebayo scored 19, Justise Winslow scored 16 and Hassan Whiteside added 15 for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention when Detroit beat Memphis — a result that went final during the third quarter of the Miami-Philly game.Wade's career will end Wednesday in Brooklyn, when Miami plays its regular-season finale. He checked out for the last time with 1:02 left, embracing teammates and his son Zaire — who was on the Heat bench.Greg Monroe scored 18 points and Ben Simmons scored 16 for Philadelphia, which entered Tuesday already locked into the No. 3 seed for the Eastern Conference playoffs and rested Joel Embiid and J.J. Redick. Simmons played only 21 minutes, Tobias Harris shot 3 for 16 in 20 minutes and Jimmy Butler scored only four points in 16 minutes.Butler did get one prize — he was the recipient of Wade's final postgame jersey exchange with an opponent.Jonathon Simmons scored 14 for the 76ers.Wade scored the first basket of the game on a dunk, Philadelphia scored the next eight — and it was all Miami the rest of the way. Winslow had three 3-pointers and Wade scored six points in a 22-2 Heat run that put Miami in control early, and the outcome was never in question again.The final minutes were all Wade. He swished a 3-pointer. He banked in a pair of them. He got slapped on his backside by a fan — in this case, it was permitted, since the fan was his wife Gabrielle Union-Wade. He scored 14 of his points in that final quarter.It was his night, and only his night.The game was the sideshow.The reason every seat was filled was Wade.There was a pregame ceremony, capping a day of tributes. Former President Barack Obama sent a video that was played during the first quarter. Wade's oldest sons and his nephew appeared in taped messages as well. John Legend and Chrissy Teigen were courtside, as was Heat legend Chris Bosh and his wife Adrienne.The ovations were constant, as were the "M-V-P" chants. And one of the loudest roars came with 11:05 left, when Wade and Udonis Haslem — the only two players to play for all three Heat championship teams, and the longest-tenured Heat players ever — checked in together.TIP-INS76ers: This is the first time Philadelphia has posted consecutive seasons of 50 or more wins since 1984-85 and 1985-86. ... Philadelphia missed 17 of its first 18 tries from 3-point range.Heat: It took Haslem less than a minute to do one of the things he does best — take a charge. ... Wade played in 575 games in a Heat uniform at home. Miami won 401 of them, and he scored 13,323 points in those contests.McGRUDER DECISIONMiami will not be a tax team this year, saving about a $5 million payment because Rodney McGruder was claimed Tuesday by the Los Angeles Clippers — two days after he was waived by the Heat. If Miami had won at Toronto on Sunday, McGruder would likely still be with the Heat. "That was one of the tougher franchise moves our organization has had to make," said coach Erik Spoelstra, who raves about McGruder.REST DAYThe 76ers plan to sit Embiid and Redick again Wednesday, and will also give Ben Simmons and Harris the night off. "Some people like to have a rhythm going into it, some people like to have time off. I don't think you can appoint the perfect formula," 76ers coach Brett Brown said.UP NEXT76ers: Host Chicago on Wednesday.Heat: Visit Brooklyn on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherWhen Derick Brassard was traded from the Florida Panthers to the Colorado Avalanche on Monday, his transportation logistics were not too tricky. He just headed over to the other team’s locker room. The Panthers and the Avalanche faced off Monday night, and Brassard duly scored a goal for his new team.In other offbeat N.H.L. trade-deadline news, Mikael Granlund was sent from the Minnesota Wild to the Nashville Predators on Monday while his partner was in labor.When you think about it, a trade is a strange thing. Imagine showing up to work tomorrow and finding yourself sent to Albuquerque along with Bob from Accounting for some young coding prospects.Given all the trades in all the sports over the years, it is not surprising that there have been some unusual ones.Guys have been traded for one, two, three, four or even five other players. Players have been traded for just about anything but a bucket of balls. Oh, wait. Scratch that. Tim Fortugno, a minor league pitcher, was sent from the Reno Silver Sox to the Stockton Brewers in 1989 for $2,500 and some baseballs. “I told them to throw in 12 dozen balls and we had a deal,” Jack Patton, the Silver Sox general manager, told The Los Angeles Times.Other legendary baseball swaps: Cy Young in 1890 for a new suit, and Ken Krahenbuhl in 1998 for catfish. Not Catfish Hunter, but 10 pounds of actual catfish.Teams have traded for coaches, including Jon Gruden, Lou Piniella, Doc Rivers and Bill Belichick. They have even traded for announcers: Ernie Harwell cost the Brooklyn Dodgers a player, Cliff Dapper, in 1948.Sometimes a player is traded for a player to be named later. In the case of Harry Chiti of the Indians in 1962, the player to be named later turned out to be Harry Chiti.In international soccer, trades are more unusual, but it’s not uncommon for smaller teams to ask bigger teams to agree to a lucrative friendly game as a part of a transfer deal.Forget three-team trades. There have been four-team trades, including the one in the N.B.A. that sent Dwight Howard to the Los Angeles Lakers in 2012. There has even been a five-team trade, a 13-player blockbuster in 2005 that sent Antoine Walker to the Miami Heat.One of the more memorable trades of recent years never actually happened. During a Mets home game in 2015, word reached the dugout and the many fans with smartphones that Wilmer Flores was being traded. Flores continued to play in the game, and the clued-in fans cheered the player in his “final” game as a Met. Flores was seen with tears in his eyes.Only the deal fell through. Flores remained a Met, and he quickly went from fan favorite to beloved Met hero for the next three years. (He was released in November.)Perhaps the strangest trade of all took place in 1979. The Philadelphia 76ers sent Harvey Catchings and Ralph Simpson to the Nets for Eric Money and Al Skinner.So what’s unusual? No, it’s not that Simpson’s daughter is the singer India Arie.The two teams had played each other in November, with the 76ers winning in double overtime. But the Nets protested the game, arguing that a number of technical fouls had been called improperly. The commissioner agreed and ordered the last part of the game to be replayed. The replay was scheduled for March.But by then the trade had taken place. Now four players were on different teams than when the game began.Sure enough, the final box score credits Money with 23 points for the Nets and 4 for the Sixers. Catchings and Simpson also played for both teams in the game.That’s a story that’s going to be hard to beat. Remember those four players who were traded in the middle of the third quarter?Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Joel Embiid took off his warmup gear and changed into street clothes, his left knee feeling too sore to play.Even with the All-Star center sitting down, the Philadelphia 76ers were flying high in Game 3.Ben Simmons scored a career playoff-high 31 points, Tobias Harris added 29 points and 16 rebounds and the 76ers shook off the absence of their leading scorer to beat the Brooklyn Nets 131-115 on Thursday night for a 2-1 lead in the first-round series.The 76ers relied on Simmons slashing to the basket, and Harris and JJ Redick shooting from the perimeter."We have the pieces to get games, to complete games and I think everybody in the organization knows that," Simmons said.Simmons was 11 for 13 from the field, repeatedly getting to the rim even with the Nets sagging well off him in hopes he would shoot a jumper. He added nine assists and eventually quieted a crowd that loudly booed him every time he touched the ball early.Harris had his playoff highs in both points and rebounds, and was 6 for 6 from 3-point range. Redick was 5 of 9 behind the arc and finished with 26 points."Listen, I think their big players came to play," Nets coach Kenny Atkinson said. "Ben had a great game, I thought JJ was great, Tobias also hit some big 3s."Embiid warmed up before the game but the 76ers announced shortly before the start that the All-Star center wouldn't be available because of a sore left knee. Greg Monroe started in his place and had nine points and 13 rebounds."Just came in, obviously with Joel down that's a big scoring loss that we had there," Harris said. "So just had to be aggressive from the start."D'Angelo Russell and Caris LeVert each scored 26 points for the Nets, who host Game 4 on Saturday afternoon. They have dropped the last two games after surprising the No. 3 seed in the opener in Philadelphia.Energized by a lively Brooklyn crowd seeing playoff basketball for the first time since 2015 and perhaps by the absence of Embiid, who averaged 22.5 points and 12.5 rebounds in the first two games, the Nets started well but then stalled. They went about 4 1/2 minutes without a basket and Philadelphia took advantage to lead 32-24 after one."When, arguably, their best player sits out, you have to take advantage of that and we just couldn't perform on it," Nets center Jarrett Allen said.The lead quickly went into double digits in the second before LeVert got going. He scored six straight points and had Brooklyn's first 14 of the period to tie it at 38. The 76ers regained control and opened an 11-point lead with about 2 1/2 minutes remaining before halftime, but LeVert had another burst to cut Philadelphia's lead to 65-59 at the break. He finished with 19 points in the period.Redick hit a pair of 3-pointers sandwiched around Harris' three-point play, pushing it to 81-67, and another 3 by Redick had the Sixers leading 97-81 with 1:16 left in the third. But a four-point play by Spencer Dinwiddie highlighted Brooklyn's run of nine straight points to end the period and trim it to 97-90.The Nets cut it to six in the fourth on Russell's 3-pointer, but the 76ers soon pulled away again.It was another poor defensive effort by the Nets, who allowed just 102 points in Game 1 but an average of 138 in the last two games."We didn't do a good enough job of getting stops," guard Joe Harris said. "You can't have three guys go for 30 and expect to win games."Jimmy Butler scored 16 points for the 76ers and backup big man Boban Marjanovic finished with 14 points and eight rebounds.TIP-INS76ers: Simmons was 5 for 5 on free throws when the Nets fouled him intentionally with 3:38 remaining. He missed both, but hit two on the next possession and finished 9 for 11. ... Monroe didn't even make his Sixers debut until April 6.Nets: Brooklyn was 8 for 39 (20.5 from 3-point range. Joe Harris, who led the league in 3-pointer percentage, missed all four of his attempts. ... LeVert's 19 points were the most he scored in any quarter of his career. ... The Nets had won their last three Game 3s.UP NEXTGame 4 is Saturday in Brooklyn.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPHILADELPHIA — Ben Simmons got an earful from the Philly crowd.With the same 76ers fans Simmons put on blast for booing in the playoff opener now going wild in Game 2, Simmons cupped a hand to his right ear just like Allen Iverson's signature move to spur the cheers even louder.And he did it with Iverson rooting on the Sixers from courtside.Simmons had 18 points, 12 assists and 10 rebounds and the Philadelphia 76ers had an answer for the pesky Brooklyn Nets in a 145-123 win to even their Eastern Conference playoff series Monday night."I was just trying to be me," Simmons said.Simmons had a disastrous Game 1 , on the court (nine points) and from a PR perspective after he criticized fans for booing during a game the Sixers were never really in. He backtracked the next day at practice and never gave another 20,591 fans a chance to do anything but roar in approval in Game 2. Simmons flashed the All-Star form that helped lead the Sixers to 51 wins, and was aggressive from tipoff. He used his size and speed to attack the lane and scored 16 points in the half en route to his second career postseason triple-double.The Sixers busted the game open with a 14-0 run to start the second half and then stretched the lead to 20 on a Simmons steal and fastbreak basket. With a packed house standing, Simmons got a massive ovation when he cupped his hand to his right ear just like Iverson did in his prime."I was thinking about the boos from the last game," Simmons said, smiling. "I have a lot of love for this city."Iverson and former Sixers teammate Dikembe Mutombo attended the game and tossed T-shirts into the crowd.Had Mutombo played in this one, the Nets surely would have received one of his signature finger wags."Everybody's got to bring it," Sixers All-Star center Joel Embiid said. "We need everybody."The Sixers got a little something from everybody in this one.The Nets collapsed in the second half, outplayed and overmatched much as expected by pundits and bookmakers (they were 7.5-point Game 2 underdogs). The Sixers scored 51 points on 18 of 25 shooting and made all 11 free throws in the third."We expect a haymaker," Nets coach Kenny Atkinson said before the game. "We know it's coming. They're too good, too talented. too well coached. It's coming. It's going to be how we react."Not well.Embiid shook off another game-time decision to play through tendinitis in his left knee and delivered after a sluggish Game 1. Embiid scored 13 points in the third as the Sixers raced to a 29-point lead."Whenever I'm out there, I kind of forget about the pain and just try and do the right things," Embiid said.On a minutes restriction, Embiid had some unexpected help from popular backup Boban Marjanovic. He scored 14 points in the first half (only Simmons had more with 16) and let the Sixers find a comfort level on offense with Embiid out for long stretches."This is just the path we're on with Joel," coach Brett Brown said. "There is zero doubt he is our crown jewel."Embiid was whistled for a flagrant foul for throwing an elbow at Jarrett Allen late in the half and the Sixers nursing a 65-64 lead."I got him pretty good and I'm sorry about it," Embiid said, laughing at the pseudo apology.Embiid had 23 points and 10 rebounds, and Marjanovic scored 16.Embiid played ball boy and had the crowd laughing when he hopped off the bench to wipe off a basketball.The Sixers mopped the floor with the Nets.The Nets head home for Games 3 and 4 certainly grateful for a split and at least a half of good basketball before the Sixers picked them apart. Spencer Dinwiddie led the Nets with 19 points and D'Angelo Russell had 16."I know the Barclays Center is going to be jumping in there," Russell said. "The buzz around the city is what we needed."TIP-INSNets: C Jared Dudley sat out with tightness in his right calf.76ers: Mutombo, who helped lead the Sixers to the 2001 finals, rang the ceremonial bell. Iverson moved from his courtside seat to a suite to sit with actor Jamie Foxx.PLENTY OF POINTSThe Sixers topped the 141 points scored in a 1967 playoff game against the San Francisco Warriors to set a team franchise record.UP NEXTThe series shifts to Barclays Center for Game 3 Thursday night and Game 4 Saturday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreBy Victor MatherThe Knicks won a basketball game Thursday night. That has not happened since Jan. 4.There won’t be a ticker-tape parade, but it was a surprise. This, after all, has been a really bad season for the Knicks.They are 11-47. The win, over the Atlanta Hawks, 106-91, broke an 18-game losing streak, which was a franchise record.The team traded away its most popular player by far, Kristaps Porzingis, and in return got a rookie and a couple of expiring contracts. The deal also meant the cancellation of the coming Latvian Heritage Night at Madison Square Garden, which frankly was shaping up to be one of the highlights of the season.To be fair, a core of loyalists insist that these Knicks are a fun bunch to watch. And there is optimistic talk for next year.The Knicks are bad enough to have a decent shot at the top draft pick, probably Zion Williamson, Duke’s superstar big man. Cap space will allow the team to seek big-name free agents, and there is sunny speculation that the team could land stars like Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving or even both.We’ll see about that. But for now, fans are left pondering if the Knicks are historically dreadful or just run-of-the-mill dreadful.Let’s see how the Knicks rate, at least in the current century.That means this year’s Knicks won’t have to compete against the consensus worst team of them all, the legendary 9-73 Philadelphia 76ers of 1972-73.Despite a couple of 50-win seasons, in 2000 and 2013, the Knicks’ winning percentage this century is .416, worst in the N.B.A. Yes, even worse than the Washington Wizards, and Charlotte Hornets, and even the Nets.Here is how the 2018-19 Knicks stack up.This is where it begins and ends. Wins. Losses. But mostly losses. Lots and lots of losses.The Knicks are 11-47, giving them a winning percentage that looks like a typo: .190.But there were worse seasons in the last 20 years. In 2012, the Bobcats (now the Hornets) finished at 7-59 in a lockout season for a .106 percentage.Over a full season, the 76ers in 2016, in full tanking mode, only barely managed to break double digit wins with a 10-72 record.The Knicks are only 11th worst.Even counting just those streaks that are contained in a single season, the Knicks’ 18-gamer comes up short. The 2011 Cleveland Cavaliers and the 2014 76ers both managed to stumble to 26 straight losses. After Thursday’s win, the Knicks have lost their chance at that ignominious record.The Knicks have been outscored by 8.7 points in an average game this season.Again, there have been worse teams. The 2012 Charlotte strike team lost by 13.9 points a game. The 2000 Clippers put up minus-11.5 over a full season.The Knicks are only 25th.There are those Sixers again: In 2015, they shot .408 for the season. At .430, the Knicks are 39th.The 2009 Grizzlies had only 17.4 assists per game, trailed closely by the 2006 Knicks of Larry Brown, Stephon Marbury and notorious nonpasser Eddy Curry.This season’s Knicks aren’t good, but they aren’t really bad, at 19.9, for 91st place.It is not a good time for defensive stats in the N.B.A. Using the metric points allowed per 100 possessions, three teams this season are in the top five of the century: The Cavaliers are allowing 117 points per 100, worst of the era, and indeed for as far back as Basketball-Reference’s stats go. Over the last 20 years, this season‘s Suns are second, and the Knicks, at 113.4, are seventh.Do any of this year’s Knicks individually reach truly humiliating marks? Not really.Frank Ntilikina’s .342 shooting percentage is poor certainly, but it is only 24th worst among players with 15 minutes a game and 40 games played, a lot better than DeShawn Stevenson’s .285 from the 2012 Nets.So we are forced to conclude, that while dispiritingly bad, the Knicks come up short in another way too. They are not even really close to being the worst team of the last 20 years.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — The longest active streak of missing the NBA playoffs belongs to Sacramento, where general manager Vlade Divac has been trying to return the Kings to the league's elite over the last four seasons.Back when the slick-passing Serbian big man was in the paint, the Kings had quite the run. For his impact on the NBA as one of the pioneering Eastern Europeans, Divac was announced Saturday as one of the 12 honorees in the 2019 class of the Basketball Hall of Fame."We created something special there, the first day of training camp that led us," said Divac, who played for Sacramento from 1998-2004, with a peak in 2002 when the Kings lost to the Los Angeles Lakers in overtime of Game 7 of the Western Conference finals. "For six years, we were the most exciting team in the league and really played basketball the right way."The class will be enshrined at the Hall of Fame in Springfield, Massachusetts, on Sept. 6. Selected this year with Divac were NBA players Carl Braun, Chuck Cooper, Bobby Jones, Sidney Moncrief, Jack Sikma and Paul Westphal, NBA coach Bill Fitch, NBA contributor Al Attles, WNBA player Teresa Weatherspoon, the 1957-59 teams from Tennessee A&I and the Wayland Baptist University program.Divac, who was elected directly by the international committee, played 16 years in the NBA, including eight with the Lakers. The 7-foot-1 Divac had his jersey retired by the Kings after helping them start a streak of eight straight postseason appearances upon his arrival. They never advanced past the conference finals, a surge that coincided with the Lakers dynasty of Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal.One of Divac's fellow starters on those Kings teams was Chris Webber, who wasn't included in the class. Now an analyst for CBS Sports, Webber quickly sent Divac a congratulatory message after the announcement in Minneapolis at the Final Four."For the last five or six days when I found out I was going to be there, I was only hoping that he was going to be next me," Divac said. "I'm sure it's going to happen down the road, but it would be awesome if he was right next to me."Moncrief and Sikma, who were elected by the North American committee, were teammates with the Milwaukee Bucks from 1986-89. The seven-time All-Star Sikma, who won an NBA title in his second season with the Seattle SuperSonics, set a record with the Bucks in 1988 as the only center in history to lead the league in free-throw percentage at 92.2. Sikma is now a consultant with the Toronto Raptors, who are in second place in the Eastern Conference behind the resurgent Bucks."My hope is we get in the conference finals and we're facing the Bucks, and then I'll kind of keep my thoughts to myself a little bit," Sikma said, smiling.Moncrief was a five-time All-Star and two-time NBA Defensive Player of the Year in the mid-1980s for the Bucks, who lost in the Eastern Conference finals three times during his career. Moncrief also reached the Final Four in his final season at Arkansas, 1978-79, under coach Eddie Sutton, for whom he gave credit for instilling in him the fundamentals that carried him to professional success."You'd take a four-hour practice: three hours on defense. Seriously," Moncrief said. "And they wonder why I couldn't shoot when I got to the NBA! I didn't shoot. I just played defense."Weatherspoon, who was elected by the women's committee, was a five-time WNBA All-Star for the New York Liberty who was the first in the league to reach 1,000 points and 1,000 assists. She led Louisiana Tech to an NCAA championship in 1988.Jones and Westphal were the other players elected by the North American committee. Jones was an eight-time NBA All-Defensive first team pick and four-time All-Star with the Philadelphia 76ers, winning a title with them in 1983. Westphal was a five-time All-Star who won a championship with the Boston Celtics in 1974.Fitch coached in the NBA for 255 seasons, leading the Celtics to a title in 1981 and still holding the franchise's best winning percentage at .738. The other election by the North American committee was the Tennessee A&I teams that won NAIA championships in 1957, 1958 and 1959. The program now known as Tennessee State was the first to win three straight titles in any college division.Attles was a direct election by the contributor committee. He played for the Philadelphia Warriors from 1960-71 and later was a coach, executive and ambassador for the organization. Cooper, who died in 1984, was directly elected by the early African American pioneers committee. He was an All-American at Duquesne in 1950 and the first African American player drafted by an NBA team. Braun, directly elected by the veterans committee, died in 2010. He was a five-time NBA All-Star who won a title with the Boston Celtics in 1962.Wayland Baptist, elected directly by the women's veterans committee, was among the first women's programs to award scholarships. Under the guidance of coach Harley Redin, the small school in West Texas won 131 straight games from 1953-58 and 10 national championships overall.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein and Kevin DraperDALLAS — Moments before the home team was introduced on Monday night, Kristaps Porzingis made his usual walk behind the scorer’s table to take a seat on the Dallas Mavericks’ bench at American Airlines Center.Wearing a three-piece olive suit and a maroon tie, Porzingis saluted a friendly face in the crowd and proceeded to what has become his customary vantage point. It was Porzingis’s 13th home game as a spectator since Dallas acquired him from the Knicks on Feb. 1, as he continues to recover from a serious knee injury he sustained in February 2018.Porzingis, in other words, projected normalcy in his first public appearance since it emerged that he is under investigation by law enforcement authorities in New York City over an accusation that he sexually assaulted a woman there.As the Mavericks reveled in an unforeseen 16 points and 14 rebounds from the reserve center Salah Mejri, Porzingis was right in the heart of multiple bench celebrations. Coach Rick Carlisle had given Porzingis the option of taking personal time away from the team to escape the glare of the spotlight, but Porzingis declined. He wants to keep practicing, Carlisle said, and uphold his rooting routine through the final five games of the Mavericks’ third successive season of missing the playoffs.These, of course, are not normal times for the Mavericks — not when Porzingis, whom they acquired just 60 days ago to serve as a cornerstone for the franchise alongside the electric Slovene rookie Luka Doncic, is facing such grave allegations.Porzingis’s lawyer, Roland G. Riopelle, “unequivocally” denied the accusation and revealed that he formally referred the accuser to the F.B.I. in December for what he termed her “extortionate demands.”The New York Police Department and the Manhattan district attorney’s office have confirmed an investigation is underway, but representatives have declined to comment further. The woman filed a complaint on Thursday that accused Porzingis of sexually assaulting her in his Manhattan apartment on Feb. 7, 2018 — mere hours after he sustained the debilitating knee injury.The woman did not respond to several phone calls requesting comment.For the Mavericks — one season removed from a sexual harassment scandal that led to multiple firings and an overhaul of the franchise’s business and human resources departments — the case has invited fresh scrutiny of a trade for a marquee player who is the subject of a serious criminal complaint.Complicating matters for the Mavericks is their assertion that they cannot comment on the investigation. Before Monday’s unexpected victory over the short-handed Philadelphia 76ers, the Mavericks’ owner, Mark Cuban, reiterated to a group of reporters that the team was told by federal authorities not to comment about the case. The F.B.I. declined to comment.“I’ve got nothing to say — n-o-t-h-i-n-g,” Cuban said, spelling out the word and repeating a stance he has maintained since the allegations against Porzingis were first revealed Saturday night. “When I said federal authorities said for us not to comment, they were being serious.”Cuban and other Mavericks officials have referred all Porzingis-related questions to the N.B.A. The league office, however, has not responded to requests for further elaboration from The New York Times beyond its brief initial statement, from the N.B.A. spokesman Mike Bass, that “we are aware of the situation.”Riopelle said he had provided the district attorney’s office with materials that show the woman attempted to extort Porzingis.“We are confident that after the district attorney reviews these materials, they will recognize that the complaint in this case is completely meritless,” Riopelle said.Porzingis’s camp has received public backing from Michele Roberts, executive director of the National Basketball Players Association and a former trial lawyer.“We have been aware of these allegations for some time, have evaluated the accuser’s claims and, based on what is presently before us, stand with Kristaps,” Roberts said in a statement.The New York Times reported on Saturday that before the trade, the Knicks made the Mavericks aware of a potential “extortion issue” with Porzingis. One person briefed on the trade call between the teams and who was not authorized to discuss it publicly expressed the belief on Monday that the N.B.A. would not have allowed the trade to go through if the case against Porzingis appeared to be strong.It appears that the N.B.A. is letting that investigation play out or awaiting further developments before deciding on any action against Porzingis — although the league, under the terms of its joint policy with the players’ association on matters of sexual assault, can place players on administrative leave in these situations if it sees fit.Dallas had aggressively pursued the trade for Porzingis, a 7-foot-3 forward from Latvia, with an open determination to sign him to a new five-year maximum contract worth an estimated $158 million in July. Cuban declined to answer on Monday night when a reporter asked if the Mavericks remained eager to sign Porzingis to such a lucrative contract.Not much with the Mavericks is clear at the moment, although Carlisle insisted to the news media before the Philadelphia game that “basketballwise, it’s business as usual,” no matter what is swirling around Porzingis. Dallas then went out and took advantage of the sidelined Joel Embiid (knee) and Jimmy Butler (back) to follow up Sunday afternoon’s win at Oklahoma City — despite Doncic’s injury absence — with a 122-102 rout of the 76ers.“Did we look distracted?” Carlisle said.Marc Stein reported from Dallas, and Kevin Draper from New York. Zolan Kanno-Youngs contributed reporting from Washington.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The Los Angeles Lakers described last weekend’s N.B.A. All-Star break as an opportunity for a much-needed reset, with the hope that they could ultimately make a playoff push after spending a few days apart. None of it sounded very convincing.But when the team reconvened for practice on Wednesday morning, LeBron James said his level of intensity had been “activated,” as if he were a superhero who had flipped a switch. He does not usually activate himself this early in the season, he said, but the Lakers need all of him now — in large part because they had lost so much ground when he was sidelined for about a month with a groin injury.“We would have loved to have had success when I was out, but we didn’t, so this is where we are right now,” James said.And when asked how he would elevate the play of his younger teammates, he put it simply: “We don’t have a choice.”In other words, it was sink or swim for the Lakers before their game against the Houston Rockets on Thursday night, and there would be no lifeguard.For one night, at least, the Lakers swam. They were cohesive enough to come away with a 111-106 victory against one of the better teams in the Western Conference. For one night, at least, the Lakers showed that they could erase a 19-point deficit by playing solid defense and making their free throws. For one night, at least, the Lakers could depend on players like Brandon Ingram (27 points, 13 rebounds) and Kyle Kuzma (18 points) to deliver in a game that the team really needed to win.The question now is whether the Lakers, who at 29-29 are the very definition of average, can build off it. Consistency has not been their hallmark.“It can give us some momentum that we need,” Coach Luke Walton said, “or it can do nothing. It depends how we respond to this.”Not so long ago, the Lakers had a similarly galvanizing win — or so it seemed.It was Feb. 7, and before the league’s trade deadline Magic Johnson, the team’s president of basketball operations, had failed in his quest to ship nearly half of the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans in exchange for the All-Star center Anthony Davis. It was a huge soap opera, and the Lakers responded in surprising fashion: by going out that night and defeating the Boston Celtics — on the road, no less.The win, though, was fool’s gold. The Lakers got pulverized by the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, then hobbled into the All-Star break with a loss to the Atlanta Hawks — a performance so devoid of energy that it seemed to signal a dysfunctional locker room, and maybe even one that was beyond repair.The team was below .500.Walton encouraged his players to reflect and refocus over the break. For James, that meant returning to Los Angeles in playoff mode — much earlier than he would prefer.But this is unfamiliar territory for James, a three-time champion who has made 13 straight trips to the playoffs and eight straight appearances in the N.B.A. finals. Now, with an inexperienced batch of teammates on the Lakers, he is merely fighting to lead them into the postseason.“I’m all about being uncomfortable,” he said this week. “I love being uncomfortable. I fall in love with being uncomfortable, so this is another uncomfortable thing for me, and I love it.”Then he must have loved what happened against the Rockets (33-25), who built a gaping lead in the third quarter behind James Harden. But the Lakers dominated the fourth quarter by limiting the Rockets to 36.8 percent shooting and forcing six turnovers. James finished with 29 points, 11 rebounds and 6 assists.“He’s had more of a serious focus on his face, about him, the last two days, even in the practice facility,” Walton said, adding: “I think he recognizes where we’re at and the sense of urgency we need to play with.”The Lakers also benefited from the fresh presence of Reggie Bullock, a versatile wing whom they acquired from the Detroit Pistons at the trade deadline. Bullock scored 14 points and defended the Rockets’ James Harden for long stretches. For a team that lacks much experience, Bullock could make a difference moving forward.“He’s a vet,” James said. “It’s great to have a shooter of his caliber, of his size; his competitive nature out on the floor. He was big for us.”The Lakers left Staples Center two and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final playoff spot in the West. But James expressed supreme confidence as the team prepared to visit the Pelicans on Saturday.“I like where I’m at,” he said. “I will love where I’m at in the next few games, and I believe — continue to get better and better.”As for his teammates — well, that is up to them.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideIn a rookie season that has resembled a seismograph, Knicks forward Kevin Knox needed a performance like Sunday’s against the Los Angeles Lakers. He scored 19 points with an array of shots, slashing to the basket, hitting a step-back 3-pointer while guarded by LeBron James and finishing with finesse on a driving, left-handed layup.“Hello, Kevin Knox. It was good to see him play well,” Knicks Coach David Fizdale said. “He’s had his bumps. We know it’s there, it’s in there. It’s just a matter of the ball going in and him getting his confidence up. But I really thought he came with a mind-set that he was going to get out of this rut. The way he was attacking, the force he was playing with.”Knox shot 8 of 14 from the field and 3 of 5 from 3-point range in the Knicks’ 124-123 victory over the Lakers, their 14th win in a dismal season.“I’d been struggling a little bit, but the whole team and coaching staff had confidence in me,” Knox said. “I came to work every single day, got up extra shots. I knew I was going to come out of the streak, so I just wanted to make sure I kept shooting.”Last year the Knicks selected Knox, a freshman from Kentucky, in the first round of the draft, ninth over all. After an ankle sprain sidelined him at the start of the season, Knox’s play took off in December, when he averaged 17.1 points and was named the Eastern Conference rookie of the month.Knox, 19, hit the rookie wall beginning in mid-January, with a 20-game stretch in which he shot 31.8 percent from the field and 27.7 from beyond the 3-point arc. The slump started soon after he scored 31 points, his highest total in the N.B.A., during a game against the Philadelphia 76ers.Shortly before that, Knox had said that he was still learning how to adjust to the demands of the long N.B.A. schedule and its 48-minute games, compared with a 40 minutes in college and A.A.U. ball.“It’s totally different,” he said in late December. “Eight minutes doesn’t seem like a lot, but it really is. That’s a whole quarter almost. Eight minutes is a long time in basketball.”To improve his fitness, Knox did extra sprints after practice and spent more time on the treadmill, running spurts of 15 minutes with the last two as fast as he could.At various points in the season, Fizdale has brought in former Knicks greats like Bernard King, Patrick Ewing, Bill Bradley and Walt Frazier to speak to his young, struggling team. (The coach, who was a Miami Heat assistant coach when James played for them, also made a point of introducing Knox to the Lakers star after Sunday’s game.)King, who was with the Knicks for five seasons in the mid-1980s, and was known for his seemingly unstoppable baseline turnaround jump shot, has focused especially on mentoring Knox.In between their meetings early in the season, Knox studied online video highlights from King’s career.“He helps my game, every time I talk to him,” Knox said. “He’s kind of like me, a wing that gets to the basket, loves transition. He kind of reminds me of myself.”Perhaps the other way around, rook.Knox said he had sought out his own tutors as well, connecting with Chris Bosh, Grant Hill, Jalen Rose, Carmelo Anthony and former Kentucky players for bits of advice during the trying moments.After Monday night’s 128-92 loss in Toronto, the Knicks had 11 games left in the season, all of them meaningless, except for their effect on the draft. The three teams with the lowest win totals will each have a 14 percent of landing the No. 1 selection in June, which presumably will be the Duke freshman Zion Williamson.The Knicks, who have the worst record in the league (14-57), are expected to lose their way into one of those slots, even after that uplifting win against the Lakers, which ended when the Knicks’ Mario Hezonja blocked a shot by James in the waning seconds.“We had a lot of ups and downs this season,” Knox said afterward. “It was big-time win, the first sweep of the season. It’s just a great way to win in the Garden, in the last 10 seconds, against one of the best players to ever play the game and we get a defensive stop with the crowd standing up yelling.”At a critical stretch in the fourth quarter, the Knicks had its three rookies on the court — Knox, center Mitchell Robinson, guard Allonzo Trier — plus guard Kadeem Allen, who was just called up from the Westchester developmental team, and forward Lance Thomas, the longest-tenured Knick.“There’s a process that needs to happen, and ours is growth, making sure the young guys are getting the experience they need in order to be good in this league,” Thomas said. “A lot of young guys don’t get to play especially extended minutes in their first year. It’s a learning experience for young guys. Our goal is to fast-track them.”Knox is sixth in the league among rookies in minutes played per game, at 28, despite shooting a subpar 36.4 percent from the field and struggling with weakside defense. He is averaging 12.3 points with 4.3 rebounds.Even so, Fizdale has never considered sending Knox to Westchester to work on his game in the anonymity of the G League “because our team was already like a glorified G League team,” Fizdale told reporters last week. Because his rookies played substantial minutes all season, he said, he thought it was better for them to take their knocks against the best.Such as James on Sunday and Toronto’s Kawhi Leonard on Monday.“Welcome to the league, kid,” Fizdale said. “This is what it’s about. This is why I wanted him in this. Take those lumps now. Later on in his career, no one will remember this stuff when he is the guy beating up on kids. This is all good for him.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — Come Thursday, Dwyane Wade will have no games left.That is the reality, like it or not. After 16 seasons as an NBA player, after three championships, an almost-annual spot in the All-Star Game, a scoring title, three franchises, four children, an Olympic gold medal and 161 teammates, the end is here.On Tuesday, Wade was playing his final regular-season home game when the Miami Heat hosted the Philadelphia 76ers — with Wade in the starting lineup for the first time all season. On Wednesday, it'll be a game at Brooklyn to end the season. The Heat started Tuesday with a slim playoff chance, which ended when Detroit beat Memphis."I gave this game everything I had," Wade said. "And I have appreciated every bit of it."So Tuesday was the farewell in Miami for Wade. It was the 576th and final time he played at AmericanAirlines Arena, all but one of those coming in a Heat uniform."It's been incredible. It's been amazing," Wade said. "A lot of people in that arena have watched me grow, have watched me be imperfect, have watched me make a lot of mistakes in life, as well as watched me blossom and watched me do amazing things, great things. I'm thankful for it."The game didn't tip off until 7:50 p.m. Tributes started in the morning. A Budweiser video showed Wade getting gifts from people — his mother, Jolinda Wade, and others including Andrea Ghersi, the sister of slain teen Joaquin "Guac" Oliver — in a nod to the way he's exchanged jerseys with fellow players all season. Gatorade aired a video starring John Legend , who sang a tribute to Wade's No. 3. Heat President Pat Riley wrote a letter to Wade published in the game program, saying Wade will be loved "forever and for always."Ghersi gave Wade her brother's jersey in the video, which was taped last week. The jersey — No. 3, of course — came with words scrawled in marker: "Please don't forget my brother."There was a pregame series of events inside the arena. Wade addressed the crowd, thanking every teammate — even ones no longer on this season's roster — by name. Wade's children were there. Students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High, where the Feb. 14, 2018, massacre left 17 dead, performed the national anthem. It was fitting that the kids from MSD were there; the tragedy touched Wade deeply and Oliver, one of the victims, was buried in a Wade jersey.The end of the anthem was drowned out by cheers. Wade's face appeared on the video screens. The fans roared."Noooooooo," Wade said. "Y'all are not about to make me cry before this game."His wife Gabrielle Union-Wade, Heat coach Erik Spoelstra, former Heat greats Shaquille O'Neal and LeBron James, Heat teammate Udonis Haslem and Riley narrated a 5-minute pregame video. Hardly anyone was sitting. Even the 76ers stayed on the floor and watched, looking up the whole time. Zaire Wade, his oldest son, introduced his dad in the same way that his father taped his famous "From Robbins, Illinois" commercial nearly 15 years ago."This city will always be proud to rep your name across our backs," Riley said.Former President Barack Obama — like Wade, a proud Chicagoan — sent a taped message as well, playing during the first timeout."I hope that the next phase of your life is just as fulfilling and just as spectacular as this one has been," Obama said.Wade "L3GACY" shirts were given to fans, some of whom spent thousands of dollars for their seats. They got Wade commemorative lanyards. They bought Wade apparel. Some arena workers asked if they could be excused from wearing the usual game-night garb and don Wade jerseys instead. Fans flew in from as far as Australia and China. NBA Commissioner Adam Silver sent his regards in a video.There also was a game, which seemed ancillary. The first shot? A dunk, by Wade. The decision for him to start was made by him and Spoelstra about six hours before gametime. The reason? They wanted that moment, one more time."I don't want this to end," said Spoelstra, who arrived for work Tuesday wearing a shirt with a photo of the scene that followed Wade's game-winning shot against Golden State emblazoned across his chest. "I'm literally having more fun this year and last year than in any of the other years with Dwyane."They are the same in so many ways, Wade and Spoelstra. Both came to the Heat as unsure young men. Both have three championship rings now. Both are likely for the Basketball Hall of Fame. When Spoelstra was promoted to head coach in April 2008, he was unsure if he'd be able to handle the job — until he met with Wade a few months later and got pumped full of confidence."That's what great players do," Spoelstra said. "You talk about Hall of Fame players, they make the other players around them better. Well, great, Hall of Fame, superstar players also make their coaches better. And that's what Dwyane did."Wade is beloved in Miami, of course, for obvious reasons. Beloved in Chicago, too, his hometown. Beloved in Milwaukee, where he took Marquette to a Final Four in 2003.And this farewell tour — the "One Last Dance" — is a league-wide victory lap for someone NBA players rave about."A legend," Toronto's Kyle Lowry said."Still amazing," Dallas' Luka Doncic said."My idol," Washington's Bradley Beal said."A leader," Detroit's Wayne Ellington said."True winner," Phoenix's Devin Booker said.Wade isn't 2008 Wade, or Big 3-era Wade, or NBA Finals MVP Wade anymore. But he's still superb, and with a flair for the dramatic — such as the buzzer-beater to top Golden State a few weeks ago. He's been the best Heat player all season. It's hard to imagine how Miami will replace him, because he is going to be clearly missed.But that's also part of the reason why this season is his last. Wade didn't want to go out as a shell of his former self. He wanted to leave the stage with the fans clamoring for more, and that is precisely what has occurred."That's the sweet part of it, seeing him be able to go off on his own terms, saying when he's done," James said. "Nobody forced him out or did anything of that nature. He's able just to hang it up when he was ready to hang it up and be at peace with it all."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Stephen Curry was about 25 minutes into a news conference here on Saturday afternoon when a magician who goes by the name Jibrizy sidled up to the dais to do a card trick. Curry, the Golden State Warriors point guard, seemed impressed.“That was nice, big fella,” Curry said. “That was crazy. Y’all see that? Did y’all see that? What’s your name, boss? Jibrizy? Nice to meet you, man. Fire. You’re fire. That’s what’s up.”Lots of weird stuff tends to happen during N.B.A. All-Star weekend, and a cameo by Jibrizy was no exception. But it was also the rare instance when the spotlight left Curry, if only for a moment, in the run-up to the weekend’s flagship game on Sunday.Curry, a six-time All-Star and two-time most valuable player who has already coaxed Golden State to three championships, is used to lots of attention. But he relished his return to Charlotte, where he grew up to become perhaps the greatest shooter of all time — and where he is still revered.“From the time I started playing basketball at 5, right down the street at the recreation center, to now, a lot has happened,” Curry said. “A lot of great things.”Curry was not so great Sunday, but that was not the point. He finished with 17 points, 9 rebounds and 7 assists for Team Giannis in a 178-164 loss to Team LeBron in the All-Star Game, which was a defense-free postscript to a weekend that was a Curry family affair.“Incredibly fond of the family,” Commissioner Adam Silver told reporters. “They seem to be the first family of Charlotte, at least this week.”For much of his trip home, Curry was accompanied by his father, Dell, who spent 10 seasons playing for the Charlotte Hornets, and his mother, Sonya, who drilled a half-court heave after the family helped refurbish a community center. It was probably the family’s splashiest shot of the weekend.“I was surprised,” Stephen Curry said, “because the first four she flung underhand, they didn’t make it to the rim. And then that last one, it just looked good from the moment it left her hand, and I was going, ‘Wham, bam, can of ham! That’s going in!’ ”Curry had less success in Saturday night’s 3-point shootout, where he was joined by his younger brother, Seth, who plays for the Portland Trail Blazers. Stephen Curry made it to the championship round before losing to Joe Harris of the Brooklyn Nets.But Curry had also found time to return to Davidson College, his alma mater, where he clambered into the student section to celebrate an 80-72 victory over St. Joseph’s on Friday night.“The energy in the building was unbelievable,” Curry said. “It’s surreal every time I get to go back there.”The following afternoon, Curry swayed in a sea of reporters (and at least one magician) as he fielded a wide-ranging mix of questions.What did it mean to him to be back in Charlotte? “It’s kind of overwhelming to be honest,” he said. “I’ve got to be like the Energizer bunny.”Could he say something nice to all his fans in the Dominican Republic? “I’ve been there, and I hope to go back,” he said.Did he have a favorite basketball-themed movie? “Probably ‘Love & Basketball,’ ” he said. “I’m a romantic, bro.”During warm-ups for Sunday’s game, Curry mimicked a game of volleyball with Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, posted up a ball boy so that he could take an entry pass from Oklahoma City Thunder point guard Russell Westbrook, made chitchat with bigwigs who were courtside and jacked his share of 30-footers. Most of them went in. All-Star weekend is a circus, but it is still basketball, after all, and Curry has unique skills.He is assembling another spectacular season, even if his work has been overshadowed by fellow All-Stars like James Harden of the Houston Rockets, Paul George of the Thunder and Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo. Curry has been so consistently good for so long now — and his team so dominant — that perhaps some of the novelty has worn off. It is unfair, of course.If his feats feel too familiar, consider his production this season: 28.6 points, 5.2 assists and 5.1 rebounds per game while shooting 48.8 percent from the field and 44.4 percent from 3-point range. He missed 11 games with a groin injury but spent part of that time gluing the Warriors’ locker room back together after Kevin Durant and Draymond Green had a big dust-up.The friction stemmed from Durant’s looming free agency, which has been a steady hum of distraction for the Warriors. But Curry has been a stabilizing force for his team — and even for the league.With a contract that runs through the 2021-22 season, Curry has not had to face pressing questions about his future. He is committed to the Warriors, and the Warriors appear committed to him. He is a throwback in an era dominated by player movement, the current face of which is Anthony Davis, the All-Star center who recently requested a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans. So many other stars face uncertain summers, too: Durant, Kyrie Irving and Kawhi Leonard among them.But Curry has his niche in Northern California, even if his roots are in North Carolina. After Sunday’s game, he described trying to persuade his father to move to the Bay Area, where Curry has settled in with his wife, Ayesha, and their three children.Dell Curry, who is a color commentator for the Hornets, always says no.“This is where home is for him,” Stephen Curry said.And for Stephen Curry, the whereabouts of his father seem to be the only player movements on his mind. Curry said he was unconcerned with free agency this summer and the potential departures of his teammates.“That’s a part of the business,” Curry said. “But the great teams, the great players, they stay in the moment and they understand what’s in front of them.”And so, after taking a weekend to dip into his past, Curry returned to looking ahead. The journey goes on.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by76ers 131, Nets 115 | Philadelphia leads series, 2-1By Kelly WhitesideBen Simmons played the role of villain with gleeful ease. Every time the Philadelphia guard touched the ball in Thursday’s Game 3 in Brooklyn, hearty boos followed, with each jeer seemingly energizing him.After the Nets’ Jared Dudley air-balled an open 3-pointer in the third quarter, Simmons celebrated with outstretched arms. After a dunk, he hung on the rim so long that the backboard swayed with aftershocks. When Dudley challenged a call, Simmons laughed in the veteran’s face.In the end, Simmons had the last laugh, scoring 31 points as the 76ers won, 131-115, taking a lead of two games to one in the best-of-seven first-round N.B.A. playoff series.With a smirk and plenty of cocksure drives to the basket, Simmons quieted the critics who questioned his shooting ability. He went 11-for-13 from the field and 9-of-11 from the free throw line, while chipping in nine assists.“That was one of Ben’s most dominant games,” said 76ers Coach Brett Brown. “I give Ben a tremendous amount of credit. We needed it all tonight, especially without Joel.”In the absence of Joel Embiid, the team’s starting center who was ruled out about 15 minutes before the game because of knee tendinitis, the 76ers showed that they have plenty of other star power. Tobias Harris, who had struggled in the previous two games, finished with 29 points and J.J. Redick had 26.“We have the pieces to complete games,” Simmons said.Philadelphia controlled the game, though the scrappy Nets fought back time and again until the final minutes. D’Angelo Russell and Caris LeVert tied for the team high with 26 points, but LeVert stood out to Coach Kenny Atkinson. “He was our sole offensive force out there,” Atkinson said.After winning Game 1, the Nets had dreams of a series upset, but after two thorough defeats, Brooklyn’s chances of advancing seem increasingly unlikely.The rivalry between the teams had heated up in Game 2, a 145-123 win for the Sixers, when Embiid violently delivered an elbow to the jaw of Nets center Jarrett Allen in the first half. In Monday’s postgame news conference, as Embiid tried to apologize, he and Simmons broke into laughter. LeVert called the moment “disrespectful.”Before Game 3, Embiid admitted: “I probably should’ve been ejected. I saw the play, and that was a bad play.” The foul was ruled a Flagrant 1; a Flagrant 2 would have resulted in an ejection.“I was trying to be genuine, and I was actually sorry about what I did, and I actually apologized to Jarrett during the game,” Embiid said. “I kept asking him if he was O.K. That was not my intention. I don’t do that type of stuff.”He said he had laughed on the podium because of a comment from Simmons. “It kind of took a wrong turn. But I did apologize. I wasn’t laughing because of how sorry I was, which I am. I’m extremely sorry. That’s not what I meant to do, I was just trying to be aggressive.”Dudley added some heat to things by calling Simmons “average” in half-court situations. Brooklyn fans took it to the next level, hanging a missing-person sign outside Barclays Center with a Simmons mug shot. The sign read: “Missing: Have you seen his jumper?” Along with Simmons’s height and weight, it listed his identifying characteristics as “just average.”Brown acknowledged that while Simmons, the team’s second-year star and the N.B.A.’s reigning Rookie of the Year, tended to shine in transition, he often struggled in the half court.“It’s evolving,” Brown said, pointing out that Simmons is just 22.The boos helped as well.“He feeds off of that, but it’s not that he’s beating his chest,” Brown said. “I think he’s got tremendous inner confidence.”After the game, Simmons took off the black hat and played nice. When asked about his rebuttal to the “average” remark, and about the boos, he shrugged. “I’m not going to worry about it,” he said.As for the Dudley air-ball celebration? Simmons smiled at the question. “I don’t really have energy for all that,” he said. “It’s done.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAs the crowd filed out of the Barclays Center in May 2015, there was reason for hope. Though the Nets had just been eliminated by the Atlanta Hawks in the first round of the playoffs, they had overachieved and shown some promise for the future. And Phil Jackson had become the Knicks president the year before, bringing his triangle offense and a coaching résumé that included 11 N.B.A. titles to Manhattan.Little did New York fans know that it would be four dreadful years before playoff basketball would return to the city. It finally will on Thursday night, when the Nets host the Philadelphia 76ers in a series tied at one all.While there has been no playoff basketball in the city in the interim, much has happened in those four years. And for Knicks and Nets fans, not much of it has been good.May 1, 2015 The eighth-seeded Nets fall to the top-seeded Hawks, 111-87. But they take two games in the series, raising optimism. “We were able to secure a playoff spot,” Coach Lionel Hollins says. “Some people will say, ‘Hey, we didn’t deserve it.’ That’s their problem.”June 25 After putting up a 17-65 record, the worst in franchise history and the league’s second worst in 2015, the Knicks have bad luck in the draft lottery, ending up at the No. 4 spot. Nevertheless, their selection, Kristaps Porzingis of Latvia, will pay off, quickly becoming a star and a fan favorite.Oct. 3 Knicks Coach Derek Fisher gets into a physical altercation after being confronted by Matt Barnes of the Memphis Grizzlies at the home of Barnes’s estranged wife. Barnes is suspended for two games.Dec. 30 Cleanthony Early of the Knicks is shot in the knee by masked men and robbed of gold teeth caps after a visit to a strip club.Jan. 10, 2016 The Nets fire Coach Hollins and demote General Manager Billy King with the team at 10-27. “Frankly speaking, I deserve a championship now much more than six years ago,”  owner Mikhail D. Prokhorov says.Feb. 8 The Knicks, 23-31, fire Fisher. “There’s not a whole lot to say,” Jackson says in his first remarks to reporters since the start of training camp.April 13 The Nets finish the season 21-61, the league’s third worst record. But there will be little help on draft day: They traded their top pick to the Celtics in 2014 for a 37-year-old Kevin Garnett and a 36-year-old Paul Pierce, both of whom are gone at this point.The Knicks finish 32-50. That’s a 15-game improvement, but Jackson says, “We’re disappointed about our season.”April 17 The Nets hire Kenny Atkinson, a Hawks assistant, as head coach. “Together, we can do great things,” Prokhorov says.June 2 The Knicks hire Jeff Hornacek as coach, bypassing the interim coach, Kurt Rambis.June 22 The Knicks trade for Derrick Rose, who proclaims them a “superteam.” After a year he will leave for the Cleveland Cavaliers.July 7 The Nets sign Jeremy Lin, perhaps hoping to recapture the Linsanity that took over the Knicks in 2012.July 8 The Knicks sign Joakim Noah for four years and $72 million. This will not work out. Noah will be suspended for 20 games for a drug violation, be sent to the developmental league and get into a shouting match with Hornacek. The Knicks wind up releasing him in 2018 and paying him anyway.Feb. 8, 2017 The Knicks legend Charles Oakley is ejected from Madison Square Garden during a game. The crowd sides with the former player, chanting “Oakley, Oakley.” The Knicks say he behaved abusively, and the owner, James L. Dolan, says that Oakley “may have a problem with alcohol.” Oakley sues, claiming defamation and battery.March 12 Carmelo Anthony gets his 10,000th point as a Knick, becoming the third player to reach that mark with two teams.April 12 The Nets finish 20-62, the worst record in the league. Once again a potentially high draft pick is gone, as part of the Garnett deal. The Knicks are 31-51.June 22 The Nets trade their longtime star Brook Lopez to the Los Angeles Lakers for D’Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov. Russell will become a key player in the team’s resurgence.June 28 The Knicks and Phil Jackson agree to part ways after three years. The Knicks never fully embraced his triangle offense, and Jackson remained wary of the 3-point shot as it became increasingly important in the league. He also could never seem to get rid of Anthony, the team’s aging star who refused to waive a no-trade clause. Jackson also feuded with the player expected to be the team’s future, Porzingis.Sept. 25 A trade is finally worked out for Anthony, who is sent to the Oklahoma City Thunder for Enes Kanter. He gave the Knicks seven seasons of 20-points-a-game play. Jackson was willing “to trade me for a bag of chips,” Anthony says. He also notes that under new management, “They went from asking for peanuts to asking for steak.”Oct. 18 Lin ruptures a knee tendon  in the Nets’ opening game and misses the entire season.Feb. 6, 2018 Porzingis tears the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee and is out for the rest of this season and the next one.April 11 The Nets finish 28-54. Incredibly, for a third straight year they do not have their top pick because of that Garnett deal. (Garnett is by now 41 and has been out of the league two years.) The lost picks turned into Jaylen Brown, a big part of the contending Celtics; Markelle Fultz, a No. 1 overall choice; and Collin Sexton, who averaged 17 points as a rookie with the Cleveland Cavaliers.The Knicks wind up 29-53 and fire Hornacek the next day. David Fizdale will be the new coach.Asked how the Knicks can improve, the superfan Spike Lee can only turn to prayer: “On bended knee I pray above to da basketball gods to deliver us back to da glory years of da Orange and Blue. Amen,” he writes in The New York Times.June 20 The Nets make a trade to get Dwight Howard from the Hornets, but Howard buys his way out of his contract and never plays for them.July 13 The Nets trade Lin to the Hawks, curing the city’s second, significantly milder case of Linsanity.Jan. 31, 2019 The Knicks  send their most popular player, Porzingis, who is still recovering from the torn A.C.L., to the Dallas Mavericks in a blockbuster trade. Two months later it will be revealed that he is under investigation by the New York Police Department after being accused of sexual assault.The Knicks get Dennis Smith Jr. and some expiring contracts, which should open up salary cap space so they can sign some marquee free agents. Assuming that marquee free agents would want to play for the Knicks.March 12 Knicks fans hoping for a change in ownership are disappointed when Dolan proclaims that he will not sell the team, even for $6 billion. Two days before that, he was filmed threatening a fan with banishment from the Garden after the fan had urged him to sell the team.April 10 The Knicks have sunk to the bottom of the league again, finishing 17-65 and tying the franchise-worst mark. The Nets start the season 8-18, but then unexpectedly turn things around behind Russell, Spencer Dinwiddie (picked up from the developmental league in 2016) and Jarrett Allen (a No. 22 pick in 2017). They finish 42-40. Playoff basketball returns to New York. For now.An earlier version of this article misstated the Knicks’ record in the 2014-15 season. They were 17-65, not 17-63.Benjamin Hoffman contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellUnhappy with mere tanking, displeased with their success at earning the N.B.A.’s worst record, the Knicks took Kristaps Porzingis, their once-in-a-generation asset, their most, and perhaps only, popular player, and traded him to the Dallas Mavericks on Thursday for potsherds and trinkets.Actually, point of information: Porzingis was not even the center of the transaction. The Knicks tossed him in as a sweetener to persuade the Mavericks to also take the putative shooting guard Tim Hardaway and his frightful contract. It was Steve Mills, the team president, whose feel for failure is bred in the bone, who handed Hardaway that $70.9 million deal two years ago. Now Mills and the rest of the Knicks’ vaunted leadership group have traded Porzingis to get rid of it.Had I been able to reach Mark Cuban, the Mavericks’ owner, for comment on his Porzingis heist, I can only assume he would have dissolved into uncontrollable laughter.We live in a national age of delusion and unapologetic rule-breaking, so perhaps there is a pleasingly nefarious explanation for this trade. If so, Knicks management should cling to it like a barnacle on the hull of a sinking ship. Perhaps the Knicks have successfully tampered with another team’s asset and know that Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving, or both, will sign in the summer now that the franchise has plenty of cap space.But I would put the chances that the Knicks could pull off something that clever and diabolical at 6.82 percent. When in doubt it is wisest to bank on inexplicable incompetence.Porzingis apparently helped set all this off by requesting a trade. As a 7-foot-3 23-year-old coming off a serious knee injury, he represented a conundrum for management. Do you commit this summer to a long-term contract of the sort that would tickle the tummy of Croesus? Let’s assume the Knicks’ crack medical and rehabilitation staff warned that his future looked iffy.If so, why wouldn’t Knicks management dangle Porzingis for a week or more to interested teams and let natural competitive instincts come into play around the league? When healthy, Porzingis is a top 20 player, and that made him a rare asset. Instead, the Knicks traded him posthaste for the aging center DeAndre Jordan and a talented, but raw, point guard, Dennis Smith Jr. The Knicks already have raw point guards, so maybe management succumbed to a collect-them-all fever.All theories and psychological analyses are welcome.I’ve followed the Knicks for decades now, and my sons soon contracted my affliction. Like residents in a smallpox ward we often debate whether we have divined one obscure reason or another for faint hope, which is why I hopped the subway a week ago and went to Barclays Center to watch the Knicks take on the Brooklyn Nets.It was a desultory affair at times, but it did feature a Nets team that is climbing in the standings with surprising speed, in contrast to the Knicks, who are hurtling happily downward. And the Nets played like men returned from a near-death experience, happily surprised to possess a winning record after four losing seasons in the Hades of the N.B.A.To his credit, the Nets’ general manager, Sean Marks, has executed a smart rebuild with a fishmonger’s eye for plucking useful talent out of the discard pool. The Nets play a swarming defense with a collective bounce, and their wait-who-is-that-guy no-names are long on desire and short on distorting egos. It was possible to daydream that if only they could sign a Durant or a Kawhi Leonard as a free agent, the Nets could be a genuine terror in the Eastern Conference.The Knicks offer terror of a different sort. They decided this season to double down on what they have done instinctually for so many years and devote their energies to pure losing. They are superb at it. Entering Friday’s game against Boston, their record stood at 10-40, which assures them a high draft pick in June.The modern N.B.A. is an upstairs-downstairs league and runs a two-tier competition: The upstairs version is staged by the top 10 or so teams and is all about winning and praying that your team will not face the Golden State Warriors until late in the playoffs, at which point you will be excused for exiting quickly and feet first.The downstairs version involves a half-dozen teams, and the point is to become the worst of the worst and pray you can draft a young stud who will turn around your franchise. The worst-run teams return year after year to this brackish well. This is the game at which the Knicks currently excel.And there is indeed much unlovely about these Knicks. Their defense occupies a netherworld between theoretical and clueless. Their now-traded shooting guard, Hardaway, appeared to have had his conscience surgically removed and would shoot anywhere at any time and none too successfully.And yet, and yet, I thought these Knicks offered a rough hope. They have the youngest team in the league, a group of foals, and a few might even possess lasting talent. Put them together with Porzingis, and something intriguing might emerge.Friends resisted these optimistic blandishments, and I dug that. In James Dolan, the Knicks have an owner who meddles and hires and fires team presidents and coaches like a mad king. In the past 17 seasons, the Knicks finished with a winning record precisely twice. This one will be no better.Still, I felt hope. The new coach, David Fizdale, is a clever basketball man who seemed O.K. with playing dorm father to a collection of teenagers. This week, Fizdale pointed to the Philadelphia 76ers, the Denver Nuggets and, yes, the Nets as young teams that weathered harrowing days and re-emerged in solid shape.“All of these teams went through hell,” Fizdale said. “You got to get steeled up. This league is not going to let you walk in here as a young team and just think you’re going to come out winning.”Not long after those remarks, the Knicks traded Porzingis. My eldest son, Nick, a fierce dead-ender on the question of team loyalties, is now recommending a family summit with a single agenda item: to switch or not to switch to the Nets?This feels almost as inconceivable as trading a 23-year-old star-in-the-making for potsherds.Mission accomplished all around.Email: powellm@nytimes.comAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaATLANTA — Kyle Kuzma had his first interaction with LeBron James a little more than a year ago, when Kuzma was a first-year forward with the Los Angeles Lakers and James was a few months from dragging the Cleveland Cavaliers to another appearance in the N.B.A. finals. Kuzma had reached out by phone, hoping for some tips.“Just wanted to see how one of the greats takes care of his body and has so much longevity,” Kuzma recalled this week in an interview. “Everybody wants to play basketball for as long as possible.”So much has changed since that initial conversation. Kuzma and James are teammates now, and Kuzma is experiencing the unique challenges that come with playing alongside one of the game’s behemoths. At the same time, James’s body finally betrayed him this season, which has only heightened the sense of urgency within the organization: The Lakers, who have missed the playoffs for five years running, are not in position for a patient rebuild.James, at 34, may still be in his prime, but the stakes are already high for a franchise that desperately wants to maximize his time in Los Angeles. And while neither James nor Lakers management has shown much enthusiasm for coaxing along a young core — the Lakers tried to ship half the roster to New Orleans last week — they are stuck in this together. James was supposed to be the savior of a flagship franchise gone astray; salvaging the final months of this year would be a key indicator that he still wields that type of power.“We have to approach the rest of the season just like you would during the playoffs,” Kuzma said.As Kuzma recalled his talk with James, he had no way of knowing that the Lakers were mere hours from suffering one final implosion before the N.B.A. All-Star break — a 117-113 loss to the Atlanta Hawks that left the team with a losing record and ample opportunity for soul searching.“It’s time for us to get away and reflect a little bit about where we are as a group,” Coach Luke Walton said. “I think this first part of the season, we’ve gone through a lot of adversity. And we’re probably not where we want to be, but we’re still close enough.”Close enough, that is, for vying for a spot in the playoffs, which was both an indication of the team’s modest goals and its sad reality. At 28-29, the Lakers are in 10th place in the Western Conference standings. It is unfamiliar territory for James, who has not been on a losing team this late in a season since he was a first-year forward with the Cavaliers.“But with LeBron on your team, anything is possible,” said Mychal Thompson, a power forward for the Showtime-era Lakers and an analyst for the team’s radio broadcasts. “I mean, look at some of the teams he’s taken to the finals — including last season. He’s capable of doing great things if you just get on board and run with him.”The Lakers, though, seem fragile after nearly five months of drama — all of it stemming directly or indirectly from the $154 million deal that James signed to join the team last summer. The pressure was on from the start, and little has gone according to plan.“There’s been more noise this year,” Walton said, “but that was to be expected with the moves in the off-season. That was something to be anticipated.”Where to begin? Brandon Ingram and Rajon Rondo were suspended for trying to brawl with the Houston Rockets two games into the season. Magic Johnson, the team’s outspoken president of basketball operations, chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting for the team’s slow start, igniting lasting questions about Walton’s job security. Nearly every player on the roster has been injured, and that includes James, who missed 17 games with a strained groin.And lest we forget: Last week, Johnson and General Manager Rob Pelinka tried to trade away nearly half the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans for Anthony Davis, who, before the start of the season, hired the same agent who represents James. It was the clearest sign yet that Johnson is willing to attempt the very boldest moves — no matter the residual damage.Consider that the Lakers, amid their ultimately fruitless effort to pry Davis away from the Pelicans, lost by 42 points to the Indiana Pacers. And with rumors of which Lakers would be traded swirling through social media, it was difficult to find arguments in their defense — even from James himself.Kuzma, who was offered up as one of the pieces in a potential deal, said it had been difficult to drown out the noise.“It’s definitely tough,” he said, “because this generation, you’re always on your phone, always on social media, always seeing it somewhere on TV.”But the trade deadline passed, and the roster more or less remained intact. There had been a sense that a surprising win against the Boston Celtics on Feb. 7 would galvanize the team in the wake of so much uncertainty. And even after losing to the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, the Lakers still had a chance to build some momentum against the Hawks on Tuesday.Before the game, James appeared to be in an upbeat mood. In the locker room, he knelt on a giant inflatable ball as he worked on some core-strengthening exercises. He crooned the lyrics to “Plug Walk” by the hip-hop artist Rich the Kid. He made small talk with Ingram. It was all vintage James.About three hours later, once the Lakers had punctuated their loss with a turnover, James made a beeline off the court and into the tunnel. He was practically steaming. He had finished with his fifth triple-double of the season — 28 points, 16 assists, 11 rebounds — but the Lakers’ defense was as porous as a coffee filter, and the result was just as messy.“I can throw that game in the trash,” James said.In a three-minute postgame session with reporters, Kuzma mentioned the concept of “fun” five times — specifically, the notion that the Lakers were not having much of it.“A lot of times we’re out there with sad faces, very focused faces,” Kuzma said. “But I think we’re at our best when we’re having fun.”Fun may not be the primary objective for James, and the psychic effects of the loss are sure to linger until at least Feb. 21, when their season will resume after the All-Star break with a home game against the Houston Rockets. For now, though, the best thing for these players may be to be away from each other for a while, which was one of Walton’s suggestions before they parted for the break.“Spend some time by yourself,” he said, and added: “I think we’ve got a group that will be ready by the time we get back.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Howard MegdalAaron Gordon sat slouched in front of his locker, immobile as ice packs worked on his body following yet another loss earlier this season. His Orlando Magic teammates showered and dressed, and left.Gordon’s back had been bothering him, and no wonder: He’s in his fifth year of carrying the Magic franchise. And he is in for the long haul, too. After doing what he described as “due diligence” this past summer, Gordon signed a four-year, $80 million contract, handing over most of his mid-20s to a team that, so far, has failed to put a winning combination around him.But if the 6-foot-9 multidimensional star is still waiting for a winning supporting cast, his 2018-19 season is the latest, best evidence yet that he is approaching a specific kind of broad-based play that is fast becoming a requirement for surviving in the N.B.A.Gordon showed it off days ago in a 103-96 win over the Golden State Warriors.He did it all, scoring 22 points, pulling down 15 rebounds and using his defensive athleticism to help limit the Warriors to 9-for-40 shooting from 3-point range. By the end of last week, the surging Magic had found themselves in eighth place in the Eastern Conference and in new territory for Gordon: the playoff race.It has taken every skill Gordon has, but for his part, the 23-year-old has embraced the way the competition in the N.B.A. has demanded that he do virtually everything on any given night.“Versatility is going to be a huge part. The league is going in that direction,” Gordon said. “So it’s going to be 6-9, 6-10, 6-11, 7-foot guys able to do everything — handle the ball, pass, shoot, rebound. That’s the way the game is going to be.”And that’s the way the game is for Gordon, and how it has been dating back to his high school days at Archbishop Mitty in San Jose, Calif., where he played point guard before a late growth spurt turned him into a 6-foot-9 forward at Arizona, and then the fourth overall pick in the 2014 N.B.A. draft.The Magic can use Gordon anywhere.For three consecutive possessions in a game against the Houston Rockets in January, Gordon found himself bringing the ball up the floor and feeding center Nikola Vucevic in the post, settling out on the wing for a 3-pointer on a catch-and-shoot, and then posting up himself.“Offensively, his efficiency is up, and his assists are way up,” Magic Coach Steve Clifford said of Gordon. “I think one of our issues has been drawing fouls and getting the ball going into the paint. And that’s something he’s done a good job with.”Gordon was back in San Jose this past summer, getting up 300 shots every day, and the result has been a 53.3 true shooting percentage, his most efficient showing in three years, even as he’s taken more shots from everywhere on the court and opposing defenses have constructed game plans around stopping him.But he also put in extra time on work like slide steps, all with the long-range goal of becoming an elite two-way player. Clifford said Gordon laid out his plans for himself when the two first spoke after Clifford was hired over the summer.The results have been extraordinary. Per Synergy, Gordon ranks second (of 140 qualified players) in the N.B.A. in points per possession on isolation plays, minimum 40 possessions, with 0.545 points per possession.And he isn’t doing this against just bigs, either: The Magic routinely play him against the opposing team’s biggest offensive threat.When the Magic played the Nets in January, Orlando had Gordon take on Joe Harris, a shooting guard, the league leader in three-point percentage and winner of the three-point contest during All-Star weekend.“That speaks to, first of all, what they think of Joe, and also what they think of Gordon’s defensive game,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “And defensively, when he wants to stop a guy, he can stop him — he has phenomenal athleticism.”The extent of Gordon’s abilities on that end were revealed further against the Nets that night, when a switch landed Gordon on the Nets’ D’Angelo Russell, an uber-quick point guard in the midst of the finest scoring barrage of his career. Russell feinted left, right, trying to find a pathway with his dribble from the top of the key. Gordon did not let him pass, and Russell, clearly frustrated, finally shunted the ball off to a teammate.The indications that Gordon has become a star are there. What is far less clear is how Orlando puts a championship team around him, though Clifford effusively endorsed him as the model player of that future roster.“He fits with what wins in the N.B.A. right now,” Clifford said. “He’s 23, and he’s made terrific gains, already, this year.”Clifford is a capable coach, in his first season with Orlando. But the roster looks less like a plan and more like a series of one-off moves. Vucevic is an excellent, traditional center, but his presence has kept Gordon, along with young bigs Mo Bamba and Jonathan Isaac, from getting significant time developing as the kind of stretch 5s most teams around the league deploy.Gordon is picked to run the offense, and does so effectively — his assist percentage of 16.4 is a career high — but that is in part because Orlando lacks a true starting point guard. Markelle Fultz may be the answer long-term, but whether the embattled former Philadelphia 76ers guard even plays this season remains a mystery.Gordon’s next step, per Clifford, needs to be the role of go-to scorer down the stretch of games, which Gordon agrees with. Will it happen?“Well, we’ll see,” Clifford said. “I mean, that’s what it’s all about. We’ll see.”But he needs help getting to those late-game situations with a chance to win it. Still, as Gordon eases into superstardom in the relative obscurity of Orlando’s slow rise in the East, he often uses visualization to help motivate himself, closing his eyes and picturing what a championship for the only franchise he’s ever known would look like.He said it gets hard to see it sometimes, pointing out that “a lot of things have to go right” even as he said he was sure it will.“Of course,” Gordon said, pulling on his pants gingerly, navigating his sore back.Toppling the Warriors last week showed Gordon just may be right. Losing to the lowly Cleveland Cavaliers on Sunday night, though, showed how far the Magic have to go.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byStars being added to Eastern Conference powerhouses drew most of the headlines, but there were other moves that could prove significant.By Benjamin HoffmanN.B.A. fans can be forgiven for being distracted by shiny objects. And there are few objects shinier than a star who is being added to a playoff contender.But even though the powerhouses of the Eastern Conference went to war over which team could add the biggest piece, it is worth taking a look at some under-the-radar moves that could prove significant this season or in the near future. Amid the flurry of moves this week, these three deals stood out as opportunities for players to thrive in situations far more advantageous to their careers than where they had been, which could end up paying significant dividends to the teams that acquired them.The Magic are trading Jonathon Simmons, a first-round pick and a second-round pick to the Philadelphia 76ers for Fultz, according to The Athletic.Why it matters: The very public breakdown of Fultz’s career has made any move involving him relevant. A consensus No. 1 pick in the 2017 draft after a terrific freshman season at Washington, Fultz was viewed by Philadelphia as the endgame of the team’s long-running Process. The Sixers traded the No. 3 pick in that draft (which ended up being Jayson Tatum) and a future first-round pick (likely to be Sacramento’s pick in this year’s draft) to Boston so they could move up two spots to get him.Things fell apart almost immediately. Fultz’s shooting form went from quirky to horrendous, debates emerged as to whether he had been injured or had simply lost his confidence, and he played just 14 games last season and 19 this season before shutting down with a diagnosis of thoracic outlet syndrome.No one knows what Fultz is capable of, but it had become painfully obvious that he was not going to have the opportunity to play his way through his problems with the Sixers, a team that believes it has a legitimate chance of winning the East this year.In Orlando, the pressure should be turned down considerably. The team values length, and while Fultz is a modest 6-foot-4, he has a seven-foot wingspan and has at times shown flashes of brilliance, including during a game last April in which he became the first teenager to officially record a triple-double in the N.B.A.In this week’s trade, Philadelphia managed to land a few picks to replace what it gave up to be able to draft Fultz. But Simmons is primarily filler to make the trade work, and the move is mostly about clearing an unproductive player off the Sixers’ roster and letting him try to find a better situation elsewhere. As Fultz looks to avoid joining Anthony Bennett and LaRue Martin as the biggest busts to be taken with the No. 1 overall pick, Orlando seems as good of a place as any to get started.The Kings traded Justin Jackson and Zach Randolph to the Dallas Mavericks for Barnes.Why it matters: The Kings entered Thursday night’s games as the No. 9 seed in the West, one and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers and one game ahead of the Los Angeles Lakers. With the Clippers having just traded Tobias Harris, the door is open for Sacramento to secure its first playoff spot since 2006.Sacramento plays extraordinarily fast, partly as a result of repeatedly using lineups with three guards, but they play at a significant size disadvantage.Enter Barnes, a 6-8 small forward who gives the team a bigger body without requiring the offense to slow down all that much.It’s hard to remember after three productive-if-uninspiring seasons in Dallas, but Barnes was once a member of Golden State’s ultrafluid Death Lineup, and if he can get back to a 3-and-D style of play, he could be a perfect addition to the Kings’ starting five, though that does not mean the deal is without drawbacks.First and foremost, Barnes has been used to a high-usage role in Dallas, and that will not be available to him in Sacramento, a team with an offensive pecking order that will make him a third option at best. He also has let his defense slide to the point where he was a net negative on the court for Dallas. The Kings will probably be on the hook for his $25.1 million player option next year, and if he isn’t on board to shift his style of play, he could make the team worse.All of that said, Barnes is still just 26, and after winning a championship in his third season, and 73 regular-season games in his fourth year, he has not sniffed the playoffs since. A return to a relevant team could unlock the complementary player who helped Golden State soar, and for a franchise that has often been accused of sabotaging itself, this is a real attempt to make the team better.The Bulls traded Jabari Parker and Bobby Portis to the Washington Wizards for Porter. Why it matters: Neither team is going anywhere this season, but Chicago is trying to set up the team’s future by acquiring Porter, a player with loads of potential — and an enormous contract — who has sometimes failed to click in Washington.Porter, a 25-year-old forward who has plenty of size at 6-8, has seen his statistics decline this season, at least in part because of the overall decline of the Wizards. But at his best, he is capable of shooting better than 40 percent from 3-point range while also contributing rebounding and passing. For an example of why Chicago would take a flier on a frustrating player owed a great deal of money, look no further than one of the players he was traded for: Parker. Last off-season, the Bulls had money to spend and wanted to make a free-agent splash. Parker, a player known as much for being injury prone as for being defense-averse, was the best they could do. In Porter they pick up a young player with plenty of potential who is owed a little more than $27 million next season and has a player option of a bit less than $28.5 million in 2020-21. That is probably better than what Chicago could get on the open market, which makes it worth saying goodbye to Portis, a decent rotation player who was mostly wasted on a team that is several big pieces away from contention.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLou Williams, who has the unusual role of leading the Clippers in scoring while coming off the bench, does not run around the court so much as flutter across it. At 6 feet 1 inch and 175 pounds, he has embraced his identity as a butterfly among a herd of cattle.But at this stage of his career, Williams wants to feel as light and nimble as possible — so he essentially starves himself on game days. After a big breakfast, he refuses to eat again until well after the game itself, often going nearly 12 hours between meals.It is one of several habits that Williams, 32, has developed over the years, and one that clearly works for him. It is also the opposite of how most elite athletes prepare for games. But Williams is different: He wants to take the court with an appetite.“That’s crazy,” Landry Shamet, the first-year Clippers guard, said. “I’d weigh about 115 pounds if I did that.”The Clippers, as they often have this season, turned to Williams on Monday night for an extraordinary performance — this time against the Golden State Warriors in Game 2 of their first-round playoff series. In the Clippers’ 135-131 win, Williams collected 36 points and 11 assists to help erase a 31-point deficit.Shamet sealed the biggest comeback in N.B.A. playoff history with a go-ahead 3-pointer with 16.5 seconds left, and the Clippers evened the best-of-seven series at one game apiece.“I’m one of those guys who can get hot,” said Williams, who shot 13 of 22 from the field, “and I just got lost in the moment.”The Clippers, who have thrived behind Williams in the wake of a midseason deal that sent Tobias Harris to the Philadelphia 76ers, will need all of him again — all his scoring, all his savvy, all his unusual rituals — when the Warriors come to Los Angeles for Game 3 on Thursday.Make no mistake, the Clippers have their share of scrappy, no-nonsense guys. Patrick Beverley, who has spent the series covering the Warriors’ Kevin Durant like aluminum foil, would trash talk a telephone pole.Williams, on the other hand, carries himself with a brand of quiet composure that has a power all its own.“He goes about his business,” said Sam Cassell, an assistant coach for the Clippers. “He’s not overwhelmingly faster than people. He’s not bigger than people. But he understands what he can do on the basketball court, and he does it well.”The Warriors’ Klay Thompson recently came across a package of highlight clips from Williams’s days as a star guard at South Gwinnett High School outside of Atlanta. What stood out to Thompson was how little Williams had changed.“He played the exact same way,” Thompson said in an interview before the start of the series. “It was incredible: same step-back jumper, same hesitations, same floaters.”Williams has stuck with the same general blueprint while refining his skills — slicker, craftier, jazzier. He has also become more resilient. There was a time, he said, when he thought his career might be finished. In 2013, he tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee while playing for the Atlanta Hawks. In his comeback, he turned to Kenny Atkinson, who was then one of the team’s assistants, to help reassemble his game.Atkinson, now the head coach of the Nets, imbued Williams with the importance of routine.“Kenny is one of my all-time favorite people in the world,” Williams said. “I give him a lot of credit for getting me back on my feet when I was down and out.”By 2015, Williams was the N.B.A.’s sixth man of the year with the Toronto Raptors. But he has never been better, more efficient or more dynamic than he has been in his last two seasons with the Clippers, all at an age — early 30s — when most players see their production begin to erode.Instead, Williams, who has scored more points off the bench than any other player in league history, has only improved. This season, he averaged 20 points and 5.4 assists in just 26.6 minutes a game. Williams also had the ball in his hands more than ever, with the Clippers running 32.4 percent of their plays through him whenever he was on the court, according to usage-rate statistics compiled by Basketball Reference.Coming off the bench was never something that he necessarily wanted to do, but Williams has no doubt that the role has helped preserve his career because it has kept his minutes down. He has averaged 24.6 minutes a game over his 14-year career. (LeBron James, by comparison, has averaged 38.6 minutes.)“It’s given me an opportunity to stretch my career out, and I think I’m in my prime right now, man,” Williams said. “I’m just rolling.”At the same time, Williams has his quirky customs, which help give him a sense of stability, starting with his game-day breakfast: hash browns, egg whites, French toast and chicken sausage along with a fruit smoothie that he sweetens with honey. He loads up because he knows he won’t eat again for a while.“I guess my body’s gotten used to it,” Williams said, who will just do the smoothie if the Clippers have an early tipoff.He also has the peculiar habit of arriving at the arena on the late side, about 90 minutes before the start of the game.“I don’t like idle time,” he said.Once there, though, Williams has an active schedule: 15 minutes in the training room getting stretched out, 10 minutes in the weight room doing exercises with a stretch band and a medicine ball, then about 17 minutes on the court making 150 field goals as Cassell feeds him passes.Before a recent home game ahead of the playoffs, Williams made nearly 80 percent of his attempts, including two skyscraping moonshots from the baseline, which is a shot that he has developed in case a 7-footer lunges at him with his arms extended. Williams says he only practices shots that he will attempt in games, however improbable or acrobatic.“I catch myself at least two or three times a game just putting my hands up, like, ‘How did that even happen?’” Shamet said.Williams wraps up his on-court work with 20 free throws and 10 court-width sprints, then retreats to the locker room to put on his ankle braces and check his phone. “Just to make sure there’s no family emergencies or anything like that,” he said.With 20 minutes on the clock, the Clippers have their team meeting. Before they head to the court, Williams gathers his teammates around him for one final huddle — or rather, they gather around him, as if he has some sort of gravitational pull.Once the game begins, Williams takes a seat on the bench — which is the only time he stops moving. But he is watching his potential defenders and studying the flow, readying himself for the moment when he sheds his warm-ups late in the first quarter.If Cassell can pinpoint one flaw, it might be that Williams commits too many turnovers. He is an excellent passer, especially coming off ball screens — Shamet considers him one of the most underrated passers in the league — but he sometimes tries to do too much, Cassell said. So Cassell will remind Williams to do what he does best: Shoot the ball. It is what everyone wants to see from Williams, who is regarded around the league as a player whom other players love to watch.“It means a lot coming from my peers,” Williams said. “I think as competitors, that’s why we get into this, to gain respect from the guys who have played the game, and you walk away and they say, ‘He was a tough cover — that dude was nice.’”All while being fueled with a hunger of his own creation.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Seth BerkmanSeven years ago, Tacko Fall and Christ Koumadje were discovered by basketball scouts in a similar fashion.They were hard to miss.On the streets of Dakar, Senegal, the two 7-footers stood out. They were spotted by employees of the Flying Star Academy, a Senegalese training ground for several basketball players who have ended up on college teams in the United States. The employees chased after the teenagers, imploring them to try their enormous hands at the sport.[Follow our live coverage of the N.C.A.A. tournament here.]At the time, Koumadje, now a 7-foot-4 senior at Florida State, preferred soccer. Fall, now a 7-foot-6 senior at Central Florida, was more interested in devouring anime and manga series like “Naruto” and “Tokyo Ghoul.” Both were, at first, indifferent to basketball.But their potential upside was difficult to ignore. To onlookers, they evoked thoughts of the next Hakeem Olajuwon or Yao Ming.Today, their size offers less promise. They toiled to become giant forces in the paint, only to watch as basketball evolved from a game that coveted height into a more freewheeling, 3-point-centric game that deems their skill sets nearly as obsolete as a fax machine: nice to have, but no longer entirely necessary.“What’s interesting about both, their advanced analytics, they play off the charts — well over 1 point per possession, and that’s really effective in college basketball,” said Steve Kyler, the editor and publisher of Basketball Insiders, which produces weekly N.B.A. mock drafts. “When you dig deeper, in situational-type things they grade really well, but the truth of the matter is the N.B.A. game isn’t played that way anymore. It’s all about stretch 5s, quickness.”“I think they may get a look on the fringe based off their size,” Kyler added. “But a guy 7-foot-6 being the first overall pick or top five is pretty rare now.”In the college game, where height can still create a tangible advantage, Fall and Koumadje — who are among the tallest players currently in Division I — will be crucial cogs in their teams’ N.C.A.A. tournament performance.Beyond that, whether they can find a place and purpose in the N.B.A. — where the only active players who stand 7-foot-3 or taller are Dallas’s Kristaps Porzingis, who has a far more diverse skill set, and Philadelphia’s Boban Marjanovic — remains to be seen.“Extending my range is something I definitely want to work on,” said Fall, who helped the Knights earn their first N.C.A.A. tournament berth since 2005 by averaging nearly 11 points and 7 rebounds a game. “I’m not going to go out there and shoot 3s like a lot of bigs do now, but pick my spots.“But I feel like no matter how the game has changed, you still need somebody down low to do some damage.”Basketball academies in Senegal like Flying Star now regularly send players abroad. After playing for a few months at the academy, Fall got a chance to join a high school team in the United States. His mother reluctantly let her son go, hoping he would receive a better education.Extremely raw when he arrived at Liberty Christian Preparatory School in Tavares, Fla., Fall almost quit basketball. But he refined his game while playing on a travel team alongside Ben Simmons, now with the Philadelphia 76ers. Fall also trained in Houston with Olajuwon, a Hall of Famer who emphasized the importance of footwork for a center his size.Occasionally, Fall watched Simmons at nearby Montverde Academy, where Koumadje landed after coming to the United States. Fall and Koumadje only briefly overlapped in Dakar — Koumadje is originally from Chad — but in high school they talked on the phone or via Facebook. Their discussions rarely veered into basketball. Instead, they commiserated about the difficulties of adjusting to life when you are over 7 feet tall and 4,500 miles from home.Koumadje, like Fall, grasps the unlikelihood that he will develop into a free-shooting N.B.A. big man. Before his senior year in high school, he played pickup games at the University of Southern California with Andre Drummond of the Detroit Pistons. It was then, Koumadje said, that he realized he was more effective cemented in the post.“The game is evolving and that’s what people want,” said Koumadje, a two-year starter who led the Seminoles in blocked shots this season. “But I play to my strength. That’s what I do.”Fall’s turning point came after his sophomore season at Central Florida, when he contemplated entering the 2017 N.B.A. draft. Five teams told him he needed vast improvement adapting to the speed of the pros, particularly in guarding pick-and-rolls.Central Florida Coach Johnny Dawkins — a former Duke guard who played with the towering centers Shawn Bradley and Manute Bol in the N.B.A. — was hired before Fall’s sophomore year, and created a three-year plan for him. Increasing mobility and stamina came first, followed by catching the ball down low and learning to work out of double and triple teams. This season, Dawkins has moved Fall farther out on the perimeter defensively.Wherever he stands, Fall often forces opposing players to elevate more when they shoot, to get the ball over his arms.“Our floaters have to be a little bit higher, and it probably screwed a couple of guys up,” Fran Dunphy, Temple’s coach at the time, said after a game against Central Florida on March 9.Teams have tried less inventive strategies to bypass Fall’s 8-foot-4 wingspan. Fall, who is bulkier than Bol or Bradley, said that he had heard opposing coaches tell players to go after his knees.Though he is all but assured of breaking the Division I record for career field-goal percentage — he currently shoots over 74 percent; the record is 67.8 — Fall converts only 36 percent of his free throws. Fall — whose hands are 10½ inches long — said that when he shoots free throws it feels as if he is holding a volleyball.His shooting form, which involves using only his right hand while flinging his left arm in the air and then slouching, has drawn derisive comments on social media, where he is sometimes treated as a sideshow. After Fall had 13 points and 10 rebounds in a win over Houston that ended the Cougars' 33-game home winning streak, Fall got more attention for a GIF that showed him holding the ball over an opponent’s head like an older brother playing keep-away.Fall and Koumadje are accustomed to stares in airports and snide remarks from opposing fans. While both harbor N.B.A. dreams — neither appears in most mock drafts — they also envision a life beyond basketball, when their height won’t dictate how others perceive them.Koumadje said he would eventually like to work for the United Nations, helping refugees in Chad. Fall wants to become an engineer.“Basketball’s opened a lot of doors for me, but there’s more to me than the ball, the hoop,” Fall said. “I definitely don’t want to be defined by that. I definitely don’t want to be seen as an attraction, either.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinIn a wholly unforeseen span of about 20 seconds Sunday night, viewers of the Academy Awards were exposed to an impromptu bit of sports-radio banter inspired by the faraway N.B.A.Yet it was the sort of back-and-forth, however brief, that makes the league truly uncomfortable.On what would soon become the most successful evening of Spike Lee’s professional life, Samuel L. Jackson announced from the Dolby Theater stage in Los Angeles that Lee’s beloved Knicks had beaten the San Antonio Spurs at Madison Square Garden to halt a franchise-record home losing streak at 18 consecutive defeats.Lee, who was moments away from winning his first competitive Oscar, appeared to mouth back to Jackson that the Knicks were “trying to tank” — N.B.A.-speak for teams that seek to improve their position in the draft as much as possible through rampant losing.Spike Lee: "WE'RE TRYING TO TANK" pic.twitter.com/zMXArdVPr0In truth, nothing the Knicks could do — even winning — could diminish the occasion for Lee. The Knicks’ most famous fan won the Oscar that had eluded him for more than 30 years and surely knew as well as anyone that one measly victory, even over the Spurs and their decorated coach, Gregg Popovich, wouldn’t knock the team too far off course in its shameless bid to finish at the bottom of the standings.But the exchange and ensuing waves of social media chatter shined the brightest of unwanted spotlights on a subject that N.B.A. officials undoubtedly wish would not have surfaced in this manner.For it is the public discourse that surrounds tanking — which inevitably leads to otherwise passionate fans like Lee openly wishing for their teams to lose — that has long been regarded at league headquarters as the most unsavory element of the practice.Tanking, in itself, can be a foolhardy strategy — especially in the wake of a procedural change this season. This is the first year since the inception of the N.B.A.’s draft lottery in 1985 that the teams holding the three lowest win totals will share flattened odds of 14 percent each of landing the No. 1 selection in June.Previously, the team with the worst record had a 25 percent chance of winning the top overall pick. But Commissioner Adam Silver’s push for so-called lottery reform has made it even tougher for the worst team in pro basketball — currently the Phoenix Suns, who, at 12-50, are a game behind the Knicks (12-48) — to win the right to (presumably) select the highly coveted Duke freshman Zion Williamson.If only there were clear measures to be taken to try to drown out the persistent tanking talk that seemingly (and loudly) swirls around every bad N.B.A. team. “Corrosive” is the word Silver used at his annual All-Star Weekend news conference in Charlotte, N.C., this month.“I personally don’t think it’s a winning strategy over the long term to engage in multiple years of rebuilding,” Silver said. “There’s a mind-set that, if you’re going to be bad, you might as well be really bad. I believe personally that’s corrosive for those organizations.”The Philadelphia 76ers are the rare franchise in position to differ. They amassed a load of lottery picks and other trade assets across a three-year window of intentional losing during the polarizing reign of their former general manager Sam Hinkie, who stepped down in April 2016 in response to a reduction in his authority over basketball matters before having the chance to reap the full benefits of all his team’s futility.Several of Hinkie’s high-profile draftees — Jahlil Okafor, Nerlens Noel and Dario Saric — fell well short of becoming the sort of fulcrums teams build around. Ditto for the 2017 No. 1 overall pick Markelle Fultz, who was drafted by Bryan Colangelo, Hinkie’s initial replacement. But the two selections who did become franchise players — Joel Embiid (by Hinkie) and Ben Simmons (two months after Hinkie’s exit) — now find themselves flanked by the former All-Star Jimmy Butler and a potential future All-Star in Tobias Harris. Butler and Harris arrived via trades that the Sixers’ new general manager, Elton Brand, was able to swing this season on the strength of the various trade chips Philadelphia had stockpiled under Hinkie.It is too early to say whether Silver’s lottery-reform crusade will actually quell further tanking attempts from teams pondering the Philadelphia model, but it has a chance. The flattened odds of winning the lottery mean that the Suns, Knicks and Cleveland Cavaliers, who currently comprise the bottom three teams, all face a daunting 86 percent chance that someone else wins the Zion Sweepstakes when the lottery is held May 14.One can safely assume that Lee and countless other Knicks fans will be shouting less flattering things as opposed to just mouthing them if all this losing they have endured this season leads to drafting someone other than Williamson.Since the Knicks are now linked with the 1993-94 Dallas Mavericks, having narrowly avoided breaking that team’s league record of 19 straight home losses with that unexpected triumph over San Antonio on Sunday, it is worth remembering what happened to the Mavericks that season.With Jamal Mashburn as their star rookie rather than Chris Webber or Penny Hardaway, after the Mavericks fell to the No. 4 overall pick the previous off-season despite boasting the highest odds of winning the draft lottery, they posted a 13-69 record.That is the type of cautionary tale that Silver, even as tanking talk persists, can forever serve up to discourage actual tanking: In the 34-year history of the lottery, only eight times has the team with the worst record managed to win the No. 1 pick.At least one Knicks fan in Hollywood finds the idea of tanking in professional sports to be “a horrible thing to even think about.” The actor Leon Robinson, who starred in “Above the Rim” and “Cool Runnings” and has made numerous appearances at The Garden this season, said in a phone interview Monday: “I’m never happy to see my team lose. I’m in The Garden — people go crazy every time they even get close to winning. Every time they’re losing, people are shaking their heads at halftime. So I’m confused. Why are you coming to the game?”Lee, however, is hardly alone in lusting after Williamson. It’s an open secret that the Knicks are dreaming of a mammoth free-agent coup this summer with the more than $70 million of salary-cap space they can clear; Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving are widely regarded as the Knicks’ top two targets. But make no mistake: The Knicks themselves, not just a segment of the fan base, are dreaming of Zion, too — no matter what history says.Given the immediate on-court impact one extremely gifted young man can have, in this five-on-five sport more than any other, it will probably always be thus.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideThe Philadelphia 76er who made the greatest impact in Game 3 of the team’s first-round playoff series against the Nets wasn’t Ben Simmons, the N.B.A.’s reigning rookie of the year, who scored 31 points. Nor was it the team’s most dominant player, Joel Embiid, who missed the game with knee tendinitis. Or the sharpshooter J.J. Redick. Or the four-time All Star Jimmy Butler.It was Tobias Harris, the oft-traded, oft-underappreciated power forward who has an ego compact enough to fit inside his white headband — with room to spare.“Tobias was our bell-ringer tonight,” 76ers Coach Brett Brown said Thursday after the 131-115 win gave Philadelphia a two-games-to-one lead in the best-of-seven series, which resumes Saturday in Brooklyn.Harris finished with playoff career highs of 29 points and 16 rebounds and made all six of his 3-pointers. At 6-foot-9, he owned the perimeter against the Nets’ smaller guards, and his work on defense was just as effective.“You start looking at Tobias’s rebounds and what he did from the 3-point line,” Brown said. “I’m proud of him. He’s good people, and he was fantastic tonight.”The Nets are the feel-good story of the postseason, given the expectations for them last fall. But after losses in the last two games, it would seem that chemistry, scrappiness and heart go only so far against a Philadelphia lineup with the most talent outside Golden State.Harris, who is from Dix Hills on Long Island, was the final piece of a Sixers team assembled to make a deep playoff run. In early February, amid the best season of his career, Harris was traded from the Los Angeles Clippers. He could have signed an $80 million contract extension with the Clippers in the last off-season but decided to gamble on himself instead. He elected to play out his final year and become an unrestricted free agent this summer in hopes of a max contract — and some stability.Having been traded five times in eight seasons, Harris would like to be able to drop off his dry cleaning, then wake up in the same city to pick it up. At 26, after an All-Star-caliber season, he is looking for a home. That might even be Philadelphia.He averaged 20 points and 7.9 rebounds this season in a total of 82 games with the Clippers and Sixers. In 27 regular-season games for Philadelphia, Harris averaged 18.2 points, tying him with Butler for second on the 76ers’ scoring list, behind Embiid, who averaged 27.5.For Game 4, the 76ers may still be without Embiid, which means that they will again need balanced scoring from the rest of their talented cast. On Thursday, Philadelphia had three scorers with 26 or more points (Simmons, Harris, Redick). The last time the franchise accomplished that in a playoff game was Game 3 of the 1978 conference semifinals against the Knicks. That night, it was Julius Erving, George McGinnis and World B. Free.“I felt good,” Harris said. “I just came in knowing with Joel down, it was a big scoring loss we had out there. I had to be aggressive from the start. I got some good looks throughout the game. I was able to let it fly, and it felt good for it to go in.”“It was a big game personally for myself and for the team, too,” he added.Beyond basketball, Harris co-stars in the best buddy movie in the N.B.A., known as the Bobi + Tobi Show. In 2016, Harris and Boban Marjanovic, a 7-foot-3 Serbian center, developed a close bond while playing for the Detroit Pistons. They were then traded to the Clippers for Blake Griffin in January 2018. About a year later, they became a package deal headed to Philadelphia.The Clippers produced three web episodes of the “Bobi + Tobi Show” focused on the pair’s friendship and foibles. They took a SoulCycle class together. They attempted a dance lesson. The fun continued in Philadelphia, where a TV station did a quiz show segment with them, focusing on trivia about their new city. Neither could pronounce “Schuylkill.”In Game 3, Marjanovic played the sidekick during Harris’s star turn. He came off the bench and split time with Greg Monroe, who had replaced Embiid in the starting lineup.Monroe and Marjanovic combined for 43 minutes and 21 of the Sixers’ 54 rebounds. With Harris defending on the perimeter, the load was lighter on the big men in the paint, though Marjanovic fouled out with about seven minutes left in the game.No matter. His buddy had his back. The game was in control, and Harris looked right at home.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byExtra BasesBy Tyler KepnerBased on the way they have started this season, Collin McHugh, C.C. Sabathia and Trevor Williams should be in high demand for interviews. The three starting pitchers — McHugh for the Houston Astros, Sabathia for the Yankees and Williams for the Pittsburgh Pirates — had combined to make nine starts before Friday’s games, with a 2.08 E.R.A.But McHugh, Sabathia and Williams enjoy asking questions, too. All three pitchers double as podcasters — a natural hobby, perhaps, for players who perform only once every five games.“We have way more time,” Sabathia said on Wednesday after recording his latest episode with the bullpen coach Mike Harkey. “Plenty of time to do stuff like that.”Sabathia and his co-host, Ryan Ruocco, a broadcaster for ESPN and the YES Network, release a new episode of “R2C2 Is Uninterrupted” every Thursday, speaking mostly with baseball, football and basketball players. Sabathia said his dream guest was the entertainer Will Smith, but lately he has settled for teammates like Gleyber Torres, J.A. Happ and James Paxton.“It’s less of an interview, I feel like, just more of a conversation,” said Sabathia, who is also working for ESPN in his final year as a player. “You get people to relax a little more, you get better stories. People are just more comfortable in that setting.”McHugh once kept a blog but transitioned to a new medium after listening to podcasts by the N.B.A. veteran JJ Redick of the Philadelphia 76ers, who regularly interviews players for a broadcast hosted by The Ringer.“I’m not a huge basketball fan, but it was just the idea of hearing league insiders talk about things that maybe you’ve thought about but never were really able to know if it was true or put a real voice to it,” McHugh said. “To hear two basketball players talking about what life on the road is like, what traveling is like, all these different things and just getting to hear their voices, that made basketball more interesting to me.“And I started thinking about: What is baseball missing? We’re missing this fan/human interaction. Everything’s getting really disconnected in terms of analytics, the fans and the players, there’s more of a gap than there’s ever been before. So what would be a way to bridge that?”McHugh is the lone host of “The Twelve Six,” named for the curveball, which breaks from 12 to 6 on a clock face. McHugh — whose recent episode with Washington Nationals closer Sean Doolittle was especially compelling — combines the probing questions of a good reporter with the credibility of a fellow major leaguer, in a casual, one-on-one setting.“As soon as you get more than one camera on a person, the honesty curve just goes way down, because guys are very reticent to say things that might be perceived the wrong way,” McHugh said. “But when it’s just two dudes sitting around, having a bottle of wine or a couple of beers and just talking, you’re way more likely to get more honest answers — which I think is a treasure, and a lot of capital in this day and age.”As for Williams, he and his co-host, Pirates reliever Steven Brault, have recorded most of their episodes during the off-season and thrive on topics far afield: favorite candy bars, Christmas songs, Pixar movies and so on.“Ours is more the fun side of players, reminding fans that we’re human beings, we’re not just baseball players and all we think about is baseball,” Williams said. “When we have guests on — other teammates or whoever — we first ask, ‘What are you passionate about, what’s a hobby that you have that isn’t baseball?’ So if it’s cooking: What’s your favorite food? If it’s sandwiches: What’s your favorite sandwich? Everyone has an opinion on their favorite things.”Williams, 26, has helped lead a Pirates rotation that entered Friday’s games with a 2.09 E.R.A., easily the best in the National League. Like the Hall of Fame pitchers Tom Seaver and Don Sutton, who each started broadcasting while they were still playing, to prepare for life after baseball, Williams enjoys his current profession while planning for his next.“Every time I’m in an interview, every time I’m in front of a TV camera, I feel like I’m trying out for my next job,” he said. “I’d love to be on TV, I’d love to do color commentary. But right now I’m a baseball player, and I’d like to do that for as long as I can.”Everyone knew why Brad Keller drilled Tim Anderson with a fastball to the hip on Wednesday afternoon in Chicago. Anderson, the White Sox’ shortstop, had earlier homered off Keller, the Kansas City Royals’ pitcher, and flung his bat triumphantly toward his dugout as the ball sailed to the seats. Keller delivered his displeasure at 92 miles per hour, well below the head.That should have been the end of it; Anderson did not charge the mound, and Keller’s message only served to put another runner on base for the White Sox. But the benches cleared and the umpire Joe West ejected four people, including Keller and Anderson, who were both suspended by Major League Baseball on Friday.Keller was given a five-game suspension and Anderson one, for using racially charged language directed at Keller in the immediate aftermath. (Keller is white and Anderson is black.) But the incident seemed to undercut M.L.B.’s #LetTheKidsPlay advertising campaign, which is meant to encourage the kind of self-expression that provoked the Royals to retaliate.Most players do not punctuate home runs with bat flips. But if some choose to celebrate that way, Anderson said, it should be a good thing. Anderson, 25, said younger players and fans can relate.“We’re in a new generation, a new wave, and this is the new school,” he said in an interview Thursday morning. “I get the old-school vibe, but this is the new school. We’re going to try and switch the vibe. The kids look up to us, and if we go out and play with a lot of energy and play to have fun, I think the kids would enjoy the game a lot more.”Anderson, who was hitting .422 through Thursday, said his reaction to the home run had nothing to do with the Royals. He was simply trying to inspire his team, which is built around young players like Eloy Jimenez and Yoan Moncada. He cited an N.B.A. player, Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder, as a model for how to act while in uniform.“I want to be the Westbrook of baseball,” Anderson said. “He goes out and plays with a high level every night and couldn’t care less what anybody else has to say. It’s really just bringing that energy and that positive vibe to the squad. That’s what I like to do, and I’m going to continue to do it. I’m not going to change.”Anderson has a charity — Anderson’s League of Leaders — that promotes community service and youth outreach in Chicago and his hometown, Tuscaloosa, Ala. Inspired by the death of his best friend, Branden Moss, to gun violence in 2017, Anderson tries to show leadership on the field by staying true to himself, even at the cost of a fastball to the hip.“I like to have fun,” he said, “and I’m not going to let anybody stop that.”When the Cincinnati Reds last won the World Series, in 1990, they clinched the title on a foul popout to first base by Carney Lansford of the Oakland Athletics. Lansford was a former batting champion, but hitting a popout was no reason to be ashamed. For most players, it is routine.Joey Votto, of course, is not like most players. Votto, the Reds’ first baseman, popped out to first base on Wednesday for the very first time in his career — in his 6,829th plate appearance. That leaves the Arizona Diamondbacks’ Alex Avila as the current leader in most career plate appearances without popping out to first, at a mere 3,285 through Thursday.Votto, a six-time All-Star, was hitting just .228 after the popout, which came in Los Angeles against the Dodgers’ Pedro Baez. C. Trent Rosecrans, the Reds’ beat writer for The Athletic, waited for Votto for 56 minutes after the game.Votto was not simply lingering in the lunchroom. To Votto, the popout was a sign that his technique was badly off.“There’s a reason I just spent an hour hitting after a day game after a night game,” Votto said. “It’s not good. It’s definitely not a good thing. I rarely do that. That’s why when I saw it, I was like, ‘Ugh, I’ve got a lot of work to do.’ But I’m going to put in the work. I’m confident it’s going to come.”One major leaguer actually hits into fewer pop-ups than Votto. According to MLB.com, Votto has popped up in 1.3 percent of his career plate appearances (almost always to the left of second base). Impressive, but not the best. Among hitters with at least 1,000 career trips to the plate, the Milwaukee Brewers’ Christian Yelich, at 1.2 percent, is the least likely to pop out.For Votto, at least, the post-pop-out-to-first phase of his career could not have started any better. After his long practice session on Wednesday, he started Thursday’s game in San Diego with a leadoff home run.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn BaseballBy Tyler KepnerMost of baseball’s 30 teams will hold their first official workout for pitchers and catchers on Wednesday. By the middle of next week, position players will join them — without a few well-known faces.We knew we would not see Adrian Beltre, Victor Martinez, Joe Mauer, Chase Utley and David Wright, who have all retired after distinguished careers. We did not know that three prominent All-Stars from last summer — Bryce Harper, Craig Kimbrel and Manny Machado — would also be absent.You won’t find lockers in Florida or Arizona for Dallas Keuchel, Mike Moustakas, Adam Jones, Josh Harrison, Carlos Gomez, Evan Gattis or a trio of Gonzalezes: Carlos, Gio and Marwin.As those free agents also wait for jobs, the game goes on. The unsigned drift about like Tom Hanks roaming his old school grounds in “Big” wearing a business suit instead of his junior high baseball jacket. Kids still play ball in the park. His world still spins without him.In absence of a boardwalk fortune-telling machine, we can’t predict where all those players will end up, and how the spring training story lines will change. For now, here are 10 sources of intrigue:BOSTON RED SOX The Red Sox are seeking to become the first team to win consecutive World Series since the 1998-2000 Yankees. They open camp in Fort Myers, Fla., without Kimbrel, the closer they passed over to collect the final three outs of the World Series at Dodger Stadium last fall. Starter Chris Sale came in from the bullpen instead, and this season the Red Sox, despite bringing back almost their entire championship roster, must continue to improvise in relief: They lost Joe Kelly to the Dodgers in free agency, have kept Kimbrel in limbo, and have signed no replacements.YANKEES In Tampa, Fla., the Yankees have no such worries. They brought back Zack Britton and signed Adam Ottavino, who will join Chad Green, Dellin Betances and Aroldis Chapman to form an imposing bullpen. The Yankees have fully embraced the modern pitching structure, emphasizing quality over quantity from starters. Only Luis Severino worked 180 innings last season, and the newcomer James Paxton — a six-year veteran — has never reached the 162-inning threshold to qualify for an earned run average title.METS In Port St. Lucie, Fla., the Mets have a similar look. They also signed two veteran relievers — their former closer, Jeurys Familia, and the left-hander Justin Wilson — and traded for the All-Star closer Edwin Diaz. The National League East should be one of baseball’s most competitive divisions, but with Jacob deGrom, Noah Syndergaard and Zack Wheeler at the front of his rotation, the new general manager Brodie Van Wagenen concedes nothing. Van Wagenen has also improved the position-player depth for the Mets, who plan to spread around playing time to finally keep their roster healthy.MIAMI MARLINS Down the road in Jupiter, Fla., the Marlins changed their uniforms but kept the same dominant color: funereal black. The teardown by Derek Jeter, their chief executive, continued with last week’s trade of J.T. Realmuto, the best catcher in baseball, to Philadelphia for prospects and catcher Jorge Alfaro, who last season became the first player to record more than 130 strikeouts, fewer than 20 walks and no more than 10 home runs in a season. On Tuesday, at least, Jeter did add a catcher with a sterling résumé: his old pal, Jorge Posada, who joined the organization as a special advisor.ST. LOUIS CARDINALS While Realmuto is gone from Jupiter, another star arrived, on the Cardinals’ side of the complex: first baseman Paul Goldschmidt, acquired in a trade from Arizona in December. Goldschmidt is the kind of slugger the Cardinals have missed since Albert Pujols left after the 2011 season, and also brings a good glove to the team that led the majors in errors last season. The Cardinals also signed reliever Andrew Miller as they seek to get back to the playoffs for the first time since 2015.SEATTLE MARINERS That postseason-less stretch is a small fraction of the longest playoff drought in the majors. The Mariners, who train in Peoria, Ariz., have not been to the playoffs since 2001, when a rookie named Ichiro Suzuki arrived from Japan. Suzuki, 45, is back this spring after an awkward shutdown last May. The Mariners open this season in Japan, where expanded rosters will make it easy to accommodate a homecoming for Suzuki, who has piled up 4,367 hits since he began with the Orix Blue Wave in 1992. Suzuki actually fits the theme of this roster, which has been loaded with veteran placeholders by Jerry Dipoto, the aggressive general manager who is building for a brighter future that never seems to arrive.LOS ANGELES ANGELS Dipoto was the Angels’ general manager for their last playoff appearance, in 2014, when they were swept in three games by Kansas City. That remains the only postseason experience for the incomparable center fielder Mike Trout, who reports to Tempe, Ariz., with just two seasons left on his contract. Trout, the pride of Millville, N.J., attended the Philadelphia 76ers’ N.B.A. game against the Lakers on Sunday, and he wasn’t rooting for the team in purple. The Angels hope to convince Trout to resist the pull of home and spend his entire career in Anaheim, but they have made only modest investments this winter, spending about $32 million in one-year deals for catcher Jonathan Lucroy, starters Trevor Cahill and Matt Harvey (remember him?) and closer Cody Allen.CLEVELAND INDIANS Cleveland shed Allen and Miller from its bullpen, and also parted with eight different hitters who started in the playoffs: Yonder Alonso, Michael Brantley, Melky Cabrera, Yandy Diaz, Josh Donaldson, Edwin Encarnacion, Yan Gomes and Brandon Guyer. Another, the star shortstop Francisco Lindor, strained his right calf recently and might not be ready by opening day. The Indians can still smile when they watch their talented starters train in Goodyear, Ariz., but the fragile state of the rest of this roster just might give an opening to someone — anyone? — in a very weak American League Central.CHICAGO CUBS Like Cleveland, the Cubs have returned to the playoffs in both seasons since the two clubs faced off in a thrilling World Series in 2016. Last season, though, Chicago collapsed over two dreary days at Wrigley Field, losing a one-game division playoff to Milwaukee before dropping the wild-card game to Colorado. The Cubs train in Mesa, Ariz., where Manager Joe Maddon lives. The Cubs have replaced several of Maddon’s coaches recently and did not extend his contract beyond this season — if they start slowly in Chicago, might they give him a one-way ticket back to Mesa?CINCINNATI REDS The N.L. Central should be a challenge again, because even the worst team is trying. Before their current stretch, the Reds had not finished in last place across four consecutive seasons since the 1930s. They’re tired of it, and bring a rebuilt rotation to Goodyear, Ariz., with Sonny Gray, Tanner Roark and Alex Wood joining Luis Castillo and Anthony DeSclafani. The Reds also acquired outfielders Matt Kemp and Yasiel Puig from the Dodgers, and hired friendly faces to new manager David Bell’s staff. The pitching coach Derek Johnson worked with Gray at Vanderbilt, and the hitting coach Turner Ward knows Puig from Los Angeles. Puig liked to kiss Ward after homers as a Dodger, so perhaps he will show up early to Reds’ camp on Thursday — Valentine’s Day.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy James WagnerPHILADELPHIA — While writing a sermon in September, Cheryl Pyrch, the pastor of Summit Presbyterian Church, needed an assist. On the topic of greatness and Jesus Christ, she wanted to open with recollections of greats in other spheres.She didn’t have to look very far for a source.Having encountered Wilt Chamberlain in passing almost 40 years ago, she decided he was the great she wanted to highlight. And details of his career — four Most Valuable Player Awards, seven N.B.A. scoring titles — were close at hand, literally and figuratively through Sports Reference, a monolith of sports data websites that just happens to rent space from the church.“I didn’t know all this in 1980,” Pyrch told the congregation as she described Chamberlain’s awards during the Sunday service. “I got it yesterday from a Sports Reference website.”The ubiquitous Sports Reference family of websites — Baseball-Reference.com, Basketball-Reference.com, Pro-Football-Reference.com, Hockey-Reference.com, and so on — are some of the most popular sports almanacs on the internet.They draw users of all kinds, from people casually searching for a trivia answer to owners of professional teams. Aided by an overhaul of its mobile website, Sports Reference’s founder and president, Sean Forman, said the group of sites drew one billion page views last year, a record for the company.Sports Reference, however, does not have the gleaming offices or huge staff of a digital titan. It has 11 full-time employees and is headquartered on the third floor of a building at Summit Presbyterian in Philadelphia, behind the 100-year-old main church and above the gymnasium, which is often used as a day care center.“Walking through it to come in and out, sometimes you’re going through 3-year-olds tossing balls,” said Mike Kania, 38, who eight years ago became one of the company’s first employees. “I worked for AOL for a long time where we had a badge to scan at the front door, people there and a front desk. It’s a lot different from that.”It is, in fact, a point of pride among Sports Reference employees that the sites have grown from humble beginnings into oft-used resources. Until late last year, Forman, 47, was cleaning the office and taking out the trash. (He has since hired the church’s janitor to take over those duties.)They are among the most popular sports-related sites. Basketball-Reference trails only NBA.com, while Pro-Football-Reference is second to NFL.com, according to SimilarWeb. Nearly two decades after Forman created Baseball-Reference, it ranks third among baseball sites, behind MLB.com and MLBTradeRumors.com. (Baseball-Reference, however, is the top draw in Forman’s stable.)The sites are not just for casual fans. J.J. Redick, the Philadelphia 76ers guard, pays for an advertising-free Basketball-Reference subscription. John Henry, the principal owner of the Boston Red Sox and Liverpool F.C., uses Baseball-Reference’s Play Index to manage statistical searches. Scott Boras, the well-known baseball agent, donated $100 to the company during its infancy because he had relied on the site’s data while negotiating a contract for Andruw Jones, Forman said.“I use it daily,” said Thad Levine, the Minnesota Twins general manager, although his team, like many others, generates its own advanced and proprietary data.“We went so far as to hire one of their back-end programmers,” added Levine, referring to Hans Van Slooten, who oversaw Baseball-Reference until June, when the Twins hired him for their front office.The sites are still expanding and developing. Forman said he envisioned Basketball-Reference eventually surpassing Baseball-Reference in traffic as a result of the data revolution in the N.B.A. And over the summer, Sports Reference began another major undertaking: a soccer website, FBref.com, which the company hopes will be as comprehensive as its other sites. In a twist from its current offerings, the company is planning to make the soccer site bilingual, with English and Spanish versions.The sites are painstakingly tweaked for updates and corrections. Some errors are reported through the dozens of emails the company receives daily. One came from the mother of Casey Fossum, a former major league pitcher. She wrote to say that her son’s birth date was wrong. It was corrected.Other requests reveal the reach of Sports Reference.A pitching coach sent an email asking that his Italian league statistics be added to his page so that his players would stop teasing him about being a bad pitcher. A woman wrote in to say that she was dating a person who claimed to be a former N.F.L. player but that she could not find him on Pro-Football-Reference. She wanted to know if that was because of an oversight or a lie.“I tried to let her down as gently as possible,” said Mike Lynch, 37, whose official title with the company is managing stathead. “I said something like, ‘If he was cut in training camp, we wouldn’t necessarily have a record of him playing in a regular season game.’”Sports Reference started with Baseball-Reference in 2000, when Forman, looking to avoid work on his doctoral dissertation on applied mathematical and computational sciences at the University of Iowa, began building a website from the CD-ROM that accompanied the printed Total Baseball encyclopedias. He hoped to make historical data more accessible.Forman, who has contributed to The New York Times’s baseball coverage in the past, expanded his endeavor by creating Sports Reference in 2004. Three years later he formalized loose affiliations with Pro-Football-Reference (founded by Doug Drinen in 2000) and Basketball-Reference (founded by Justin Kubatko in 2004). Kubatko left Sports Reference in 2013 because of what he called “creative differences.”In 2007, Forman still fit the stats nerd stereotype, working out of the basement of his home and staying up until 1 a.m. updating or improving the website. The year before, he had left his full-time job of six years — professor of mathematics and computer science at St. Joseph’s University — because it was too hard to juggle both. He also needed a better place to work.So Forman turned to his church, which had space to rent.Sports Reference’s seven websites are usually updated automatically, mostly from official feeds of statistics that the company pays for. Some data, such as roster transactions or salary information, is input manually, and there are always bugs to fix.Once you get beyond the basics, however, the information on the sites runs the gamut of sources.They include a collection of old college media guides acquired from a single collector and a professor in Britain who supplies statistics of independent baseball leagues. The sites also add some things just for fun, such as Oddibe McDowell’s page listing his utility bills from 2011 and part of 2012, in reference to a series of articles by Deadspin.Sports Reference’s goal is to become more comprehensive, even as sports leagues increasingly privatize their data. Eventually, the company hopes to charge for advanced features and to become less dependent on advertising, which currently generates 95 percent of the sites’ revenue. As of now, the only advanced tool that requires a paid subscription is Baseball-Reference’s Play Index. (Don’t worry: The page for the former Met Keith Hernandez’s mustache will live forever.)That the little company in her church has become so important, with leading sports websites, earned a laugh from Pyrch. She had been to the sites once or twice, including the time she did sermon research.“I think that both myself and most of the congregation would not realize what kind of a powerhouse Sports Reference is,” she said. “I don’t really know a lot about numbers or computers, but one billion is a lot.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein and Sopan DebIt is one of the oldest warnings in sports: Great athletes, they say, don’t often become great coaches.In the case of Magic Johnson, the legendary former Los Angeles Lakers point guard, that maxim must be amended. For Johnson, neither the front office nor the bench proved to be a winning or even comfortable habitat like the hardwood he used as a launching pad to basketball immortality.Johnson’s forgettable coaching career with the Lakers lasted just 16 games at the close of the 1993-94 season before he unhappily vowed never to return to that occupation. Then this week, Johnson’s two-year reign as the Lakers’ president of basketball operations ended even more ignominiously.He abruptly announced his resignation before the team’s final game of an enormously disappointing season, then revealed that he had told the news media of the decision before he had informed his boss, Jeanie Buss, in order to deny Buss an opportunity to talk him out of it.Johnson, of course, has stunned the world before, with his announcement and early retirement in 1991 because he was found to be H.I.V. positive, followed by his brief return to basketball in 1996. He spent the ensuing two decades constructing a business and entertainment empire replete with a highly successful chain of movie theaters and an ownership stake in the storied Los Angeles Dodgers. But Johnson always insisted that he was, first and foremost, a Laker.Handling his exit in such a haphazard manner has earned Johnson untold amounts of criticism in the days since, given how much the Lakers mean to Southern Californians and how unexpected this news was. Yet he seems prepared to take the hits in exchange for the opportunity to return to his more customary post-playing life “on the other side,” as he described it — forever a Laker but officially unattached to any team.“I like to be free,” Johnson said.But his freedom comes at a steep cost — to Johnson, to the Lakers, to a Hollywood belief in, well, magic.It turns out Magic Johnson, who piloted some of the greatest teams in N.B.A. history, will not be the savior who helps the Lakers escape their longest run of futility.After last summer’s blockbuster signing of LeBron James, Johnson proclaimed the Lakers to be “back” — with the promise of a return to full “back back” status this summer once they acquired at least one superstar sidekick to James. Johnson has instead fled just when the most crucial work was about to commence, with no clear path to bringing that second star to a flailing franchise that last reached the playoffs in 2013 and last won a championship in 2010.When he convened an impromptu news conference Tuesday night, rather than reveal his updated plan to restore the Lakers to title contention and placate a frustrated fan base, Johnson did just the opposite. Describing himself as “happier when I wasn’t the president,” he explained that the conditions and pressures attached to building a championship team around James meant that the real Magic “couldn’t come out.”In a series of rambling interviews with a number of news outlets while the Lakers were in the process of losing their regular-season finale to the Portland Trail Blazers, Johnson spoke of how he had longed to send a congratulatory tweet to Oklahoma City’s Russell Westbrook or to tutor Ben Simmons, the rising Philadelphia 76ers star, without inciting a storm of tampering allegations.“I knew if I stayed in the role,” he said, “I’m giving up a lot of me.”Such disclosures, of course, only served to validate much of the skepticism that greeted Buss’s decision to install Johnson as the new face of the Lakers’ basketball operations in February 2017.Rival front-office executives questioned Johnson’s lack of experience in the modern game and his willingness to embrace the all-encompassing nature of the job from the moment he was named to replace the much-maligned Jim Buss (Jeanie’s brother) and Mitch Kupchak, the longtime Lakers executive. Those questions only rose in volume when Buss named as Magic’s sidekick another front-office neophyte, Rob Pelinka, Kobe Bryant’s polarizing former agent.There were red flags from the start. In taking on his first active role with an N.B.A. team since his second retirement as a player in 1996, Johnson admitted that he had much to learn about navigating the ins and outs of the N.B.A.’s complex salary cap and the rhythms of a job that had evolved so much in his time away.“The main part for me is really learning the other part that I didn’t know, and that is to understand the C.B.A., the salary cap, where we are in terms of the salary cap and who’s a free-agent-to-be,” Johnson told USA Today of the challenges he faced in building a roster and understanding the collective bargaining agreement.Part of the issue might have been that Johnson could never just be a basketball executive. He is a mogul and a cultural force. While other N.B.A. teams primarily lean on decision makers focusing solely on basketball, Johnson seemed to always have his eye on something bigger than the game itself — reaching with his business tentacles to as many corners as possible.Johnson acquired a 4.5 percent share of the Lakers in 1994 before selling his stake in 2010. He even once hosted a syndicated late-night talk show, 1998’s “The Magic Hour.” And he was never just about one game either, acquiring a minority stake in the Dodgers in 2012 and one in the Los Angeles Football Club of Major League Soccer in 2014.Business had clearly been on Johnson’s mind when he took the Lakers’ front-office job in 2017. He told “CBS This Morning” in an interview at the time that he had turned down other offers to run a franchise, including the embattled Knicks, but that he felt it was the right time to rejoin the Lakers.“At this point in my life, you know, I think that I can do it right now because my businesses are running smooth,” Johnson said. “I can turn them over to my executive team that I have.” In that same interview, he said, “I always wanted to be the male Oprah.”Johnson was one of the first athletes to build an empire for himself outside professional sports. He went from whipping behind-the-back passes and being the engine that made the 1980s Showtime Lakers rev to investing in more than 100 Starbucks and Burger King locations, among many other business investments, all while flashing his famed charismatic grin. According to a Basketball Reference estimate, Johnson made about $23 million from N.B.A. salary alone, not including endorsements. Now his net worth is in the hundreds of millions.The business of reviving the Lakers, however, proved beyond him. Buss, as a result, is already facing pressure to rebound from her nostalgic faith in Johnson to pursue a more accomplished executive this time — such as Golden State’s Bob Myers or San Antonio’s R. C. Buford — to plot the team’s recovery from a season soaked in drama and dysfunction.Bizarre as the timing seemed, Johnson insisted to reporters that there were no hidden reasons for leaving other than the desire, as he put it to ESPN’s Rachel Nichols, to stop “letting myself down by not being Magic Johnson.”What’s clear is that walking away when he did spared him from firing Coach Luke Walton — something Walton and his assistant coaches, according to two people with knowledge of the situation who were not authorized to discuss it publicly, had been bracing for this week. Walton’s culpability for the Lakers’ 37-45 record is a matter of debate, given all of this season’s injuries, but Johnson’s desire to make a change had been widely anticipated in league circles for weeks, if not months. Buss’s well-chronicled fondness for Walton is thought to be the only thing that had kept him in place throughout Johnson’s reign.“I would have to affect someone’s livelihood and their life,” Johnson told reporters Tuesday night, seemingly confirming that he was poised to fire Walton. “And I thought about that. That’s not fun for me. That’s not who I am.”There had never been a player like Johnson before he was drafted out of Michigan State as the first pick in the 1979 N.B.A. draft. His court vision, quickness, length and versatility made him a dominant presence and led to his winning three Most Valuable Player Awards and five N.B.A. championships. He became perhaps the defining face of what it means to be a Laker — no easy feat given the deep well of great players who have worn their familiar purple-and-gold jersey.But the fact that Buss has yet to address the news media, beyond a brief statement insisting that the organization still believed “there is no greater Los Angeles Laker than Earvin Johnson,” speaks to the team’s level of shock that he would step down without warning.At a speaking engagement at Chapman University on April 3, Buss acknowledged that the Lakers “haven’t lived up to the brand my father created,” referring to one of the most successful owners in the history of American team sports: Jerry Buss. The signing of James in free agency last summer — for which Johnson is sometimes subjected to claims that his “closer” role was overstated — could not prevent the Lakers from extending their playoff drought to a franchise-worst sixth consecutive season. That figure matches the Knicks for the league’s third-longest active drought behind Sacramento (13 seasons) and Phoenix (nine).Now, the onus falls squarely on Buss to find a successor to repair a roster in need of overhaul.To Johnson’s relief, such issues are no longer his concern. He returns now to a world he may have felt increasingly more comfortable with anyway in recent years: the one outside basketball. As he told The Los Angeles Times in 2008, Johnson hoped to go down in history as a better businessman than an athlete.“That’s my dream,” Johnson said. “And I’m going after it each and every day.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Consider the following scenes from the N.B.A.’s annual bacchanal/business convention known as All-Star weekend:Spike Lee standing on a street corner waiting for the crosswalk signal. Stan Kroenke, whose family owns the Denver Nuggets, holding court in a hotel lobby. Joel Embiid, the star center of the Philadelphia 76ers, making small talk with the governor of North Carolina. An army of personal stylists waiting to be summoned by their clients for some of the flashiest events of the year.And then there were the agents and league officials and sneakerheads and reporters, some of whom traveled great distances to make unconventional requests of the weekend’s main attractions.“Shout out to my fans in Mongolia!” John Collins of the Atlanta Hawks yelled into a camera the morning before his appearance in the Saturday slam dunk contest.[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]All-Star weekend tends to be a blend of basketball and branding, business and pleasure — a showcase for a powerful league whose global influence continues to expand.“The whole weekend,” Mike Conley of the Memphis Grizzlies said, “is just a big party.”The All-Star Game itself, scheduled for Sunday night, felt secondary to just about everything else in the host city, as it has for many years. Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets, recalled waiting in line in 2006 for one of the more popular parties at All-Star weekend in Houston, where he watched Maciej Lampe — a center from Poland who appeared in 64 career games over parts of three seasons — bypass the line so that he could immediately be waved inside by security.“And I’m like, ‘Man, I’m behind Maciej Lampe?’” said Morey, who would officially join the front office of the Rockets a little more than six weeks later.All-Star weekend has only grown in recent years. One spreadsheet making the rounds in Charlotte listed more than 100 parties, and that did not include many of the more exclusive events. (Michael Jordan hosted a big one.) Thanks to a change in the league schedule, there is more partying and less deal-making than there used to be.Last year, the league moved the trade deadline up so that it preceded All-Star weekend. In the past, the deadline came a few days after the game, a sequence which helped create its share of absurdity. One of the more notorious examples came in 2017, when word leaked during the fourth quarter of the All-Star Game that the New Orleans Pelicans had struck a deal to acquire DeMarcus Cousins from the Sacramento Kings. Cousins learned of the trade during postgame interviews.The weekend vibe is different now.“It’s so much more fun,” one prominent agent said at a party that he hosted.In the corner, a disc jockey who appeared to be in his 60s spun tunes in a Hawaiian shirt and red-tinted glasses, while women wearing bright red dresses passed out hors d’oeuvres. Agents, clients and marketing honchos milled about the room.But none of this is meant to suggest that deals do not get done.On Thursday night, at a downtown hotel bar where patrons sipped $25 cocktails, a crowd of very tall men gathered as a private event wound down at a nearby steakhouse. Among the luminaries who emerged from the event: Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner; Kroenke, who also owns the Los Angeles Rams; Brian Rolapp, the N.F.L.’s chief media and business officer; Bill Simmons, the founder of The Ringer; Connor Schell, ESPN’s executive vice president for content; and Bob Myers, the general manager of the Golden State Warriors.“There are definitely conversations happening,” Morey said. “And there’s serendipity involved. You’re always bumping into people.”Morey was finishing lunch at an upscale restaurant. Warren LeGarie, a longtime agent to many coaches and executives, and Kiki Vandeweghe, the league’s executive vice president for basketball operations, were dining at nearby tables. Morey was about to head into a meeting with Vandeweghe and Monty McCutchen, who supervises the league’s referees.“Obviously, we care deeply about where the league is going,” Morey said, “so talking to Adam Silver about strategy or Monty McCutchen about changing how they might call certain things — all that kind of stuff could impact our franchise moving forward, so I try to be involved.”The atmosphere may seem more relaxed than it was two years ago, when most team executives and agents were focused on the trade deadline, but the shift in the schedule has not pushed aside the league’s most pressing issues.In Charlotte, a cloud loomed over the festivities, and it came in the shape of a unibrow.Perhaps you have heard? Anthony Davis, the star center for the Pelicans, requested a trade 10 days before the deadline.The Pelicans, though, rejected all trade offers for him and instead hope to reap better players and draft picks in a deal this summer. Last week, Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry called the drama of it all a “dumpster fire.” On Friday, the Pelicans fired their general manager. On Saturday, Davis told reporters that his list of preferred destinations included the Knicks and the Los Angeles Lakers. Hours later, Silver said he would like trade demands and discussions to remain behind closed doors.In any case, the Davis situation only underscored how much the topic of player movement dominates the league — even in the middle of the season, and even after the trade deadline. Everyone here was fixated on what could happen just over four months from now — at the start of free agency.Will Kevin Durant leave the Warriors? Will Kawhi Leonard spurn the Toronto Raptors? Will Kyrie Irving bolt from the Boston Celtics? And, again, what about Davis?“No one likes to see an instance,” Silver said, “where a player is demanding that he be traded when he’s still in the middle of a contractual obligation to a team.”Silver made those remarks, and his wish for private trade discussions, at a news conference before Saturday night’s skills, dunk and 3-point competitions.The media forum, like the carefully coordinated outfits stars wore to events around town, has become part of the event’s routine. So has the roll call of courtside A-listers during the dunk contest; this year’s included the rappers Quavo, 2 Chainz, J. Cole and Gucci Mane.All-Star weekend was not always so structured — or extravagant. Paul Westphal recalled making his first trip to an All-Star Game in 1977 as a guard for the Phoenix Suns. The league hosted a modest dinner. Players received commemorative mugs. Anyone associated with the game stayed at the same hotel in downtown Milwaukee.“It wasn’t like it is now where the game takes over the whole city,” Westphal said.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar missed practice, Westphal said, then showed up about 20 minutes before the start of the game in a fur coat. Westphal helped seal his team’s win with a late steal against Pete Maravich. It was a moment he said he would never forget.This weekend, Westphal was in Charlotte, where he was named a finalist for the Basketball Hall of Fame. He said he was not planning to attend any parties.“Just dinner with friends,” he said.In Charlotte, the streets around the host arena, Spectrum Center, were choked with traffic. Concert fliers hung from every lamppost. And none of the guests, spread among numerous hotels at premium nightly rates, seemed to mind the cold weather as countless lines formed for restaurants, bars and pop-up musical performances.Given all the extracurriculars, it was easy to forget that basketball was the only reason anyone was here in the first place — and perhaps that was because the only legitimate basketball was being played in a college gymnasium a few miles from downtown. A group of elite teenage prospects, without much fanfare, had convened for the league’s annual Basketball Without Borders Global Camp.In all, 63 boys and girls from 31 countries played in front of scouts and executives who hoped to identify the sport’s next batch of stars.“There’s a lot of talent here,” said Brooks Meek, the N.B.A.’s vice president for international basketball operations.The spotlight will find them soon enough.Kevin Draper and Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAt the end of a dizzying frenzy of trades in the N.B.A., featuring 24 deals in one week, Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans stayed put — for now.Yet there was plenty of action to make up for the lack of a Davis trade, with two of the four title hopefuls in the Eastern Conference making significant acquisitions before Thursday afternoon’s trade deadline, intensifying the race at the top of the East after Philadelphia’s big trade earlier this week.In the most significant deadline-day deals, Toronto acquired the former All-Star center Marc Gasol from Memphis, while Milwaukee imported the sharpshooting forward Nikola Mirotic from New Orleans as part of a three-team deal that also involved Detroit.Those moves capped a wild seven-day stretch that began with the Knicks’ blockbuster trade of Kristaps Porzingis to Dallas and also included the 76ers’ acquisition of Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers. Philadelphia’s big swing to land Harris, who joined a starting lineup that already featured Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Jimmy Butler and JJ Redick, seemingly forced the Raptors and Bucks, who entered Thursday as the East’s second- and first-place teams, to make their own moves.Milwaukee, Toronto and Philadelphia, along with the Boston Celtics, are jockeying to become the first LeBron James-less team to represent the East in the N.B.A. Finals since 2010.The Sixers, at fifth in the conference standings, didn’t stop at their Harris trade, though. Shortly before the deadline, they made a surprising deal with the Orlando Magic to send the wayward guard Markelle Fultz — whom they selected with the No. 1 overall pick in the 2017 draft — for the small forward Jonathon Simmons and two future draft picks (one in the first round, one in the second).The Celtics, who entered Thursday in third, came away from trade season simply relieved that Davis had not been traded to the Los Angeles Lakers. After a nervy two weeks, during which the Celtics could merely watch because of an obscure league rule, they will now get an opportunity to make a run at Davis in the off-season — although Davis is said to remain adamantly against signing a long-term contract with the Celtics should they trade for him.The Celtics were ineligible to make in-season trade offers for Davis with Kyrie Irving still on their roster, since both Davis and Irving are currently playing under maximum rookie-scale contract extensions; league rules allow teams to field only one such player.The Lakers, however, were unable to persuade the Pelicans to surrender Davis during the exclusive negotiating window they had to pursue him in the wake of Davis’s Jan. 28 request to be traded. The front offices of Los Angeles and New Orleans had no discussions about Davis on deadline day, according to two people familiar with the talks, after negotiations broke down Tuesday over what the Lakers deemed to be exorbitant demands from New Orleans.Late Thursday, Pelicans General Manager Dell Demps confirmed that Davis would continue playing for the team rather than be held out to guard against serious injury in advance of the trade sweepstakes that will likely emerge closer to the draft. Davis had not played since Jan. 18 because of a finger injury followed by the team not wanting to risk an injury. Demps confirmed he would be back on the court soon.“Ultimately, Anthony made it clear to us he wants to play and he gives our team the best opportunity to win games,” Demps said in a statement.The Lakers on Thursday were left trying to recover from the instability wrought by their pursuit of Davis as they seek to make the playoffs in James’s first season in Los Angeles. They entered Thursday’s play at 27-27, good for just 10th place in the West, after falling to a humiliating 42-point defeat in Indiana on Tuesday night. The one-sided loss, against the Victor Oladipo-less Pacers, left little doubt that the mounting trade speculation surrounding the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma was taking a toll on the Lakers.When the Lakers couldn’t acquire Davis on Thursday, they did trade the Croatian center Ivica Zubac — who was among the promising young players mentioned as potential parts of a trade for Davis — along with Michael Beasley to the Los Angeles Clippers in a deal for forward Mike Muscala. The move opened a roster spot for the Lakers that will allow them to seriously consider signing the former All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony, but Los Angeles will have plenty of other options on the free-agent market as various veterans become available following the deadline.As the Davis talk cooled on Thursday, much of the focus leading into the deadline centered on the Grizzlies, who wound up trading Gasol but keeping their point guard Mike Conley, who had drawn serious trade interest from the Utah Jazz and Detroit Pistons.Conley, 31, has two seasons, with a combined salary of $66 million, left on his contract after this one, which convinced the Grizzlies that trading him closer to the draft in June might yield a better offer. Gasol, though, can become a free agent at season’s end, so Memphis had to trade him now or risk losing one of the game’s best two-way players without compensation this summer.Charlotte and Memphis engaged in serious trade talks regarding Gasol earlier this week, which prompted the Spaniard, who has only played for the Grizzlies — and who played his high school ball in Memphis after the Grizzlies imported his brother Pau Gasol from Spain — to clean out his locker.But Toronto, perhaps motivated by what the Sixers did and by the Bucks’ move for Mirotic, packaged Jonas Valanciunas, Delon Wright, C.J. Miles and a second-round draft pick in 2024 to add Gasol to a team straining to convince the All-Star forward Kawhi Leonard to make a long-term commitment when he becomes a free agent July 1.The Bucks, like Toronto, managed to upgrade their roster without surrendering a first-round pick. By expanding a Thon Maker-for-Stanley Johnson trade it had hashed out earlier this week into a three-team deal, Milwaukee landed Mirotic for the primary cost of four second-round draft picks, which were sent to the Pelicans, who also came away with Johnson and the veteran Jason Smith.The Knicks did not make another deal, one week removed from the Porzingis blockbuster that got the trade madness started, but they did set two veterans free to find deals on the postseason market. The outspoken forward Enes Kanter was waived, as was the newly acquired Wes Matthews — with Matthews immediately coming to terms with Indiana to join the Pacers after he clears waivers.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy Field Level MediaKyle Lowry scored a game-high 22 points and hit the 3-pointer with 7 minutes 3 seconds remaining that gave the Toronto Raptors the lead for good Saturday night in a 104-99 win over the Knicks at Madison Square Garden.Kevin Knox scored 20 points, and DeAndre Jordan posted a double-double with 10 points and 18 rebounds for the Knicks, who tied a franchise record by losing their 16th straight game.Serge Ibaka had a double-double (15 points and 13 rebounds) for the Raptors, who have the second-best record in the Eastern Conference (41-16) and have won four consecutive games. Danny Green scored 14 points and sank three straight 3-pointers in the fourth for Toronto. Norman Powell also had 14 points, and Kawhi Leonard (11) and Pascal Siakam (10) also scored in double figures.Marc Gasol, playing his first game for the Raptors since he was acquired from the Memphis Grizzlies on Thursday, scored 7 points and pulled down 6 rebounds in 19 minutes. He came off the bench for the first time since his rookie season in 2008-9.Mitchell Robinson scored 15 points, Kadeem Allen added 14 points and Dennis Smith Jr. chipped in with 13 points and 6 assists for the Knicks, who have the worst record in the N.B.A. (10-45) and have dropped 24 of 25 and 29 of their last 31 games.Despite the vast difference in fortunes, the Knicks gave the Raptors all they could handle.After Leonard opened the game with a 3-pointer, the Knicks scored the next 14 points. They also tied the game three times early in the fourth quarter before Robinson’s three-point play gave them an 86-85 lead — their first since a 38-36 advantage with 3:48 left in the second quarter.Lowry responded for the Raptors with his go-ahead 3-pointer. After Jordan missed two free throws, Green hit three 3-pointers during a 9-4 run — interrupted only by two free throws and a layup from Allen — to give Toronto a 97-90 lead with 3:28 left.The Knicks closed to 99-96 on Knox’s 3-pointer with 1:59 left. They had two chances to make it a 1-point game, but Mario Hezonja and Smith each missed jumpers, and the Raptors then made five of their final six free throws.SUPERLATIVES APLENTY The Oklahoma City-Houston game had two 40-point scorers, a tied triple-double record, and a winning rally from a 26-point deficit.Paul George scored 45 points, Russell Westbrook matched the league record with his ninth straight triple-double, and the visiting Thunder overcame the large deficit to beat the Rockets.Westbrook had 21 points, 11 assists and 12 rebounds to match the record streak set by Wilt Chamberlain in 1968. Westbrook has 22 triple-doubles this season and 126 over all.James Harden led Houston with 42 points, reaching 30 points for the 29th straight game — two shy of Chamberlain for the second-longest streak in N.B.A. history, but far behind Chamberlain’s record run of 65 games.(AP)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe Philadelphia 76ers made a bold move in the early hours of Wednesday morning to try to seize control of the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference by trading for Tobias Harris, the Los Angeles Clippers’ dynamic forward.In his second trade this season for a player who can become a free agent in July, Philadelphia General Manager Elton Brand surrendered two future first-round picks and two second-round picks in a six-player deal. The clear headliner, though, is Harris, who will join Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, J.J. Redick and Jimmy Butler, November’s acquisition, in what threatens to be the league’s most potent starting lineup outside of Golden State.The cost for Philadelphia was significant. The Sixers gave up their first-round pick in 2020 and an unprotected first-round pick in 2021, which they have from the Miami Heat, along with Wilson Chandler, Mike Muscala and Landry Shamet, a rookie guard. In return, Philadelphia will receive Harris, Boban Marjanovic and Mike Scott.“We are in a unique position to contend now, and we think this trade positions us well for the postseason,” Brand said in a statement.Philadelphia entered Wednesday’s play as the East’s No. 5 seed at 34-20, six games behind Milwaukee (39-13). The Sixers’ twofold challenge now will be establishing a chemistry among its new five-man core in the 28 games left before the playoffs and then re-signing Harris and Butler this summer after making two of this season’s biggest trades to get them.Harris emerged as an All-Star contender for the Clippers this season by averaging 20.9 points and 7.9 rebounds per game. His move to Philadelphia gives the Sixers another much-needed shooter (.496 from the field and .434 from 3-point range) alongside Redick.In making this trade, the Clippers ultimately decided that the draft picks Philadelphia offered were too valuable to pass up as they prepare for a big summer in which they are widely considered to be the league’s strongest threat to lure Kawhi Leonard away from the Toronto Raptors in free agency.The Clippers, at 30-25, have been one of this season’s surprise teams and sit at No. 8 in the Western Conference. But earlier this week, they also were named as one of four teams that Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans is willing to sign with long-term. This deal adds two more potentially enticing trade chips for the Clippers to offer the Pelicans for Davis — who has requested a trade — or to use in pursuit of other elite players.With Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline approaching, teams across the league, especially Philadelphia’s top rivals in the East, are running out of time to make their own moves to try to keep pace.The Boston Celtics, according to numerous reports, have been urging the Pelicans not to trade Davis until after the season, since league rules prevent Boston from trading for Davis while both he and Celtics guard Kyrie Irving are playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. The Toronto Raptors, meanwhile, have reportedly expressed trade interest in the very available Memphis Grizzlies duo of Marc Gasol and Mike Conley.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGolden State guard Stephen Curry left the Warriors' Tuesday game against the New Orleans Pelicans with a sprained right foot, but the ailment isn't expected to affect his readiness for the NBA playoffs.Curry sustained the non-contact injury when he rolled his foot and ankle while dribbling near the 3-point arc. He immediately fell and lost control of the ball.The team already was short-handed without key contributors such as Kevin Durant (flu-like symptoms), Klay Thompson (right knee soreness), Andre Iguodala (toe) and Andrew Bogut (rest), yet Golden State beat New Orleans 112-103.Warriors coach Steve Kerr was relatively tight-lipped about the injury after the game -- even labeling it an ankle issue when the team had earlier reported it as a sprained foot -- but Golden State's in-game actions spoke louder than his words.After going to the locker room for an examination, Curry returned to the game briefly, an indication the Warriors don't believe the injury is serious.In fact, it was Curry who waved himself off after hitting a shot, clearly not willing to risk further damage with the playoff opener potentially as close as four days away. He finished with five points in nine minutes of action."We think he's going to be fine. He tweaked it," Kerr told reporters afterward.The coach then was asked if the Warriors' Wednesday duel with the Toronto Raptors for the second-best record in the NBA played any role in Curry re-entering the game."We would like to win every game," Kerr responded. "Whatever happens with the seedings, we prioritize our health."Golden State already had secured the top seed in the Western Conference playoffs.In 2017, Curry also turned his right ankle on the Pelicans' home court. He missed almost a month because of that injury.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Tech standout Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, announced Thursday he will forgo his last two seasons in Lubbock and declare for the 2019 NBA Draft.The 6-foot-5, 195-pound guard made the announcement during a press conference in Lubbock, Texas.Culver helped lead the Red Raiders to a share of the Big 12 regular-season title and was effective in this year's NCAA Tournament, where Texas Tech fell to Virginia 85-77 in overtime in the national championship game.On the season, Culver averaged 18.5 points, 6.4 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game while the Red Raiders set a school record with 31 wins.--Also announcing his plans to declare for the draft was 18-year-old Russian Nikita Mikhailovskii, according to a report by ESPN.The 6-foot-8, 180-pound wing is trying to become the first Russian player drafted since 2013 when Sergey Karasev was chosen with the 19th pick by the Cleveland Cavaliers.Mikhailovskii spent the past season playing in the mostly Russian VTB United League and FIBA Europe Cup, averaging 7.8 points in 16.8 minutes while shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range in 45 games.--The Memphis Grizzlies hired two former general managers to their front office, adding Rich Cho as vice president of strategy and Glen Grunwald as senior adviser.Cho is a former GM of the Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers, and Grunwald was GM of the New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors.The Grizzlies demoted former GM Chris Wallace to a scouting role in a flurry of moves last week, including the firing of head coach J.B. Bickerstaff and the promotion of Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations.--Los Angeles Clippers assistant general manager Trent Redden reportedly is close to interviewing for a senior front-office role with the New Orleans Pelicans.The Clippers gave the Pelicans permission to discuss the position with Redden, ESPN reported, citing league sources.David Griffin, the Pelicans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, worked closely with Redden when they with the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 2016 NBA championship season. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski noted that Griffin is expected to be "aggressive" in pursuing Redden.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points and the Toronto Raptors closed their regular season with a 120-100 victory over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Tuesday night.Fred VanVleet scored 16 points, and Chris Boucher had a career-high 15 points and 13 rebounds off the bench for the Raptors, who finished the regular season at 58-24.Andrew Wiggins and Gorgui Dieng each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves, who played without All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.Toronto went on a 20-5 run over the final 5:16 of the second quarter and led 69-47 at halftime.Boucher scored 11 points in 10 minutes in the second quarter. Boucher's previous career best was the nine points he scored Dec. 28 against the Orlando Magic.The Timberwolves never got closer than 15 points in the second half, and the Raptors led by as many as 32 points in the final two periods.Towns did not play because of knee soreness. Timberwolves coach Ryan Saunders said Towns would travel with the team for Wednesday's season finale in Denver and be a game-time decision.The Raptors set a franchise record with their 26th road victory of the season.GOOD TIMINGThe Raptors were in Minneapolis on Monday night, allowing coach Nick Nurse and his staff to attend Monday night's NCAA title game. Nurse played against Virginia coach Tony Bennett when Nurse was at Northern Iowa and Bennett was at Wisconsin-Green Bay. "I think I held him to 29 points one time," Nurse joked.TIP-INSRaptors: G Kyle Lowry (rest), F/C Serge Ibaka (rest) and G Patrick McCaw (sprained right thumb) did not play. VanVleet started in place of Lowry. . Toronto reached 1,000 made 3-pointers in a season for the first time.Timberwolves: G Jerryd Bayless (right ankle contusion) and F Taj Gibson (strained left calf) did not play. They joined Towns and long-term absentees F Robert Covington (bone bruise on right knee), F Luol Deng (left Achilles soreness), G Derrick Rose (right elbow surgery) and G Jeff Teague (left foot inflammation) in missing the game. . Dieng made his first start since April 12, 2017. . Tyus Jones had his stretch of 129:18 without a turnover snapped.UP NEXTRaptors: Host either Brooklyn Nets or Orlando Magic in Eastern Conference playoffs.Timberwolves: At Denver Nuggets on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTORONTO — With the Maple Leafs buzzing and Scotiabank Arena rocking after Toronto tied it early in second period, the Boston Bruins needed a push from their dormant stars.David Pastrnak and Brad Marchand delivered.Pastrnak scored twice in quick succession, Marchand had a goal and two assists and the Bruins held off the Toronto Maple Leafs 6-4 on Wednesday night to tie the first-round series 2-2."It's not easy to win in this building," Pastrnak said. "A hell of a win."Game 5 is Friday night in Boston.Charlie McAvoy had a goal and an assist for Boston, Zdeno Chara and Joakim Nordstrom also scored and Tuukka Rask made 38 saves.At 42 years, 30 days, the 6-foot-9 Chara became the second-oldest defenseman in NHL history to score a playoff goal. Chris Chelios holds the record at 45 years, 86 days."If I contribute something offensively, it's always a plus," Chara said. "But my focus is always playing well defensively. I take a lot of pride in playing well defensively."Auston Matthews scored twice for Toronto. Zach Hyman and Travis Dermott also scored and Frederik Andersen stopped 25 shots."We had real good energy," Toronto coach Mike Babcock said. "I didn't think we had the kind of brain all that time that we wanted. Turned the puck over, two real big mistakes on the penalty kill. Just got in our own way a little bit."After the Maple Leafs overcame a 2-0 deficit to tie it early in the second period, Pastrnak put Boston back in front at 3:16 when he redirected a pass from Marchand on a 2-on-1. The Bruins then got a power play when Matthews went off for roughing, and Marchand whipped a backhand pass to a wide-open Pastrnak, who snapped the puck short-side on Andersen for his second goal in 1:35.Chara made it 5-2 at 5:39 of the third."He's a true professional. He's a great leader," Bruins coach Bruce Cassidy said. "Still a really solid hockey player. They're trying to find ways to expose him and he's trying to adapt to the new NHL and has. There's a reason why he's still playing and still effective. Not only is he hard, but he's smart. He's a very intelligent man and has been able to figure out a way to keep playing this game and be effective."Matthews scored on the power play with 8:08 left, and Dermott made it 5-4 through traffic with 6:33 remaining. Nordstrom scored into an empty net with two seconds to go."We did a lot of good things," Toronto center John Tavares said. "We generated a lot of chances, got a lot of pucks to the net. We didn't have our best start tonight, but we gave ourselves a good chance."NOTES: Boston was 2 for 2 on the power play. Toronto went 1 for 3. ... Canadian hip hop artist Drake and Toronto Raptors coach Nick Nurse attended the game.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTORONTO — Pascal Siakam had 23 points and 10 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard scored 22 points and the Toronto Raptors beat Miami 117-109 in overtime on Sunday, further denting the Heat's fading playoff hopes.Norman Powell matched his season high with 23 points, Danny Green scored seven of his 21 points in overtime and OG Anunoby had 12 as Toronto won its fourth straight over the Heat.Dwyane Wade scored 21 points and James Johnson had 18 for the Heat, who have lost a season-high four straight.Miami could have guaranteed a postseason berth by winning its final three games — the Heat host Philadelphia on Tuesday and close the regular season at Brooklyn the following day. Miami was in position to be eliminated later Sunday if Orlando defeated Boston and Brooklyn beat Indiana.Dion Waiters scored 17 points, Justise Winslow had 15 and Hassan Whiteside 14.With the score tied 103-103, Wade and Leonard each missed 3-pointers in the final 35 seconds of regulation. The Heat called timeout with 10 seconds left after grabbing Leonard's miss, but couldn't capitalize. James Johnson missed a potential winning jumper, and Bam Adebayo couldn't beat the buzzer with his layup.Green opened the extra session with a 3, then added a layup to put Toronto up five, the biggest margin for either team since the start of the fourth quarter. The Raptors outscored the Heat 16-6 in overtime.The crowd of 19,800 rose for a brief ovation when Wade checked in for the first time at 6:18 of the first. The 16-year veteran intends to retire at the end of the season.Wade scored five points in the opening quarter and Miami led 26-25 after one.Whiteside scored 10 points and the Heat made 10 of their first 12 shots in the second, opening a 49-36 lead. Toronto called its second timeout of the quarter before responding with a 10-0 run as Miami went scoreless for 4:17. Winslow stopped the drought with a 3 and the Heat led 57-50 at halftime.Leonard scored eight points in the third as Toronto closed the gap, but Miami took a 79-78 lead into the fourth.TIP-INSHeat: Bam Adebayo led the Heat with 13 rebounds. ...Miami signed F Yante Maten to a full contract. Maten had been on a two-way contract.Raptors: The Raptors didn't get any points from bench players in the first quarter. ... Before the opening tip, Green made a brief address at center court to thank fans for their support in the final home game of the regular season. The Raptors finished 32-9 at home. ... Toronto scored at least 110 points for the eighth straight game, matching a franchise record. The Raptors also did it Feb. 6 to 28, 2018.UP NEXTHeat: Host Philadelphia on Tuesday.Raptors: At Minnesota on Tuesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday. He compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.--The Lakers, meanwhile, received permission to discuss their opening for head coach with Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams, ESPN reported, citing league sources.The Lakers are focusing on Williams and former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue, and general manager Rob Pelinka plans to speak with each candidate in the near future, league sources told ESPN.After spending the previous two years in the San Antonio Spurs' front office following the death of his wife Ingrid in 2016, Williams got back into coaching as Brett Brown's top assistant with the 76ers.--The 76ers fined veteran center Amir Johnson an undisclosed amount for showing teammate Joel Embiid his cell phone on the bench late in a 111-102 loss to the Brooklyn Nets in Game 1 of their playoff series.TV cameras caught Johnson on the bench in the fourth quarter, when the 76ers were 16 points down and he was scrolling through his phone. After showing Embiid something on his phone, Johnson put it into the pocket of his warm-ups."I apologize for having my phone on the bench in today's game," Johnson said in a statement released hours after the game by the 76ers. "I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions. I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."--Milwaukee Bucks forward Nikola Mirotic is expected to return from a thumb injury to play in Game 1 of the first-round series against the Detroit Pistons on Sunday.Mirotic missed the final 11 games of the regular season after fracturing his left thumb during a March 19 game against the Los Angeles Lakers.Mirotic fully participated in Friday's practice and took part in Saturday's non-contact practice. He had his thumb taped during both workouts.--The Washington Wizards announced they will not make a qualifying offer to free agent forward Devin Robinson after he was apparently arrested late Friday."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend a qualifying offer to him for the 2019-20 season," it read.According to Washington Post reporter Candace Buckner, who covers the Wizards, Robinson was involved in an altercation with Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills at a nightclub.--Toronto Raptors forward OG Anunoby could be sidelined until the Eastern Conference finals, should the team make it that far, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.Anunoby underwent an emergency appendectomy on Thursday.The second-year player, who is a key reserve for the Raptors, scored 7.0 points per game this season with an average of 2.9 rebounds. He played in 67 games this season, starting six of them, a year after he started 62 games as a rookie from Indiana.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHere are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressKyrie Irving scored 37 points and the Boston Celtics rallied late in the fourth quarter to beat the Indiana Pacers by 99-91 on Wednesday night. The win gave Boston a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven, first-round seriesComing out of a timeout and with a chance to tie, the Pacers’ Wesley Matthews threw an inbounds pass into the bench on the other side of the court with 12.1 seconds left. On the ensuing play, the Celtics’ Al Horford passed to Jayson Tatum, who was fouled on a two-handed dunk. He completed the three-point play to make it 97-91 with 8.8 seconds left.The Pacers turned it over again and the Celtics were able to close out the game at the free throw line.Tatum scored 26 points, including a thunderous dunk down the stretch to help punctuate a 10-0 run by Boston over the final five minutes.[Read: Jayson Tatum has a daily reminder of the booming dunk he delivered on LeBron James last year.]Bojan Bogdanovic led Indiana with 23 points. Thaddeus Young added 15 points.Indiana led by 79-68 entering the fourth. Horford opened the final period scoring on a hook shot in the lane and Tyreke Evans responded with a 3-pointer on Indiana’s first possession.But then Boston caught fire, using a 16-0 run, including eight straight by Irving, to take an 86-82 lead with 5:04 to play. Indiana missed 10 straight shots during the run, finally breaking a nearly eight-minute scoring drought with a 3-pointer by Matthews in front of the Celtics’ bench.Horford had been a game-time decision with an illness, but was able to remain in the Celtics’ starting lineup. He was noticeably a step slower at the outset and didn’t take his first shot until late in the second quarter. He didn’t score his first points until the fourth, finishing with four points, 10 rebounds and four assists for the game.Game 3 is Friday in Indiana.BUCKS 120, PISTONS 99 Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points in Milwaukee’s big third quarter and the Bucks beat the Detroit Pistons, 120-99, on Wednesday night to take a 2-0 lead in the first-round playoff series.Eric Bledsoe led the Bucks with 27 points, and Khris Middleton had 24. Milwaukee is trying win a playoff series for the first time since 2001.Luke Kennard had 19 points for Detroit. Reggie Jackson and Andre Drummond each added 18, and Drummond had 16 rebounds. Detroit star Blake Griffin sat out again with a left knee injury, but received a technical for the second straight game for arguing from the bench.After scoring 10 points and playing only 14 minutes in the first half because of foul trouble, Antetokounmpo scored Milwaukee’s first seven points in the third quarter. The Bucks outscored Detroit 35-17 in the period to take a 93-76 lead into the fourth.Detroit clawed within seven in the fourth before the Bucks put it away, capped by a hard drive by Antetokounmpo on a break. He banked in an awkward reverse-angle shot while crashing to the floor after being fouled by Drummond. He competed the three-point play it make it 105-87.Game 3 is Saturday night in Detroit.GRIZZLIES HIRE EXECUTIVES The Memphis Grizzlies have hired Rich Cho as vice president of basketball strategy and Glen Grunwald as a senior adviser within the franchise’s basketball operations department.Cho is a former Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers general manager. Grunwald was general manager of the Knicks and the Toronto Raptors.Before coming to Portland, Cho was an assistant general manager with the Seattle SuperSonics and continued in that role when the franchise became the Oklahoma City Thunder. Grunwald worked with the Knicks from 2006-13, serving as executive vice president and general manager for the final two seasons of that stretch. He was Toronto’s general manager from 1997 to 2004.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressORLANDO, Fla. — The Toronto Raptors think Pascal Siakam should be selected the NBA's Most Improved Player.He was their MVP on Friday night.And the East's No. 2 seed has the home-court edge back again.Siakam had 30 points and 11 rebounds, hitting a floater with 1:33 left to help snuff out a big Orlando rally and the Raptors held off the Magic 98-93 to take a 2-1 lead in the Eastern Conference first-round series."He's unbelievable," Raptors guard Kyle Lowry said. "He's the most improved basketball player in the NBA this year and he's only going to get better."Siakam was 13 for 20 from the floor and the Raptors held Orlando to 36% shooting."It's just taking what a defense gives us and going with it," Siakam said.Kawhi Leonard — battling illness this week — had 16 points and 10 rebounds. Danny Green had 13 points and Lowry finished with 12 points and 10 assists, plus ran down a huge offensive rebound with about 15 seconds left to extend a critical possession and spoil Orlando's first home playoff game since 2012."It was really what I thought it was going to be tonight," Raptors coach Nick Nurse said. "I really thought this was going to be a tough atmosphere to play in."Terrence Ross led Orlando with 24 points, and Nikola Vucevic shook off a slow start to finish with 22 points and 14 rebounds.Game 4 is Sunday night in Orlando."Our turnovers hurt us again," Vucevic said, lamenting Orlando's 16 giveaways. "We had too many of those. Empty possessions for us and against a team like that you can't have that."The Raptors trailed 61-60 midway through the third after a brief Orlando spurt, then went on a 16-0 run over the next four minutes to take the lead for good. Siakam and Green were both 3 for 3 during the run, the Magic missed 10 consecutive shots over a span of 6 1/2 minutes and had to play uphill the rest of the way.That being said, they went down swinging.Lowry's 3-pointer with 7:48 left gave Toronto its biggest lead at 86-69. The Magic came flying back, and Ross' 3-pointer with 41 seconds left got Orlando to 96-93.Leonard was short with a jumper on the next possession — but the Magic couldn't control the rebound, Lowry ran it down and Leonard made a pair of free throws with 12.9 seconds remaining to clinch the win."Critical," Magic coach Steve Clifford said.Orlando, which finished the regular season by winning 13 of its final 14 home games, was 13 of 44 from 3-point range.Toronto scored the first 10 points — the last five by Siakam, who was a problem from the outset for the Magic — and led by as many as 11 in the first half. The Magic got within 48-45 at the break after Ross beat the clock from midcourt at the buzzer.The Magic got the lead twice in the second half, once by one point, the other by two points. And both leads lasted exactly 15 seconds, getting taken away on 3-pointers by Siakam and Green.And now it's up to Orlando to regroup, the same way Toronto did after dropping Game 1."It's 2-1," Clifford said. "It's not like it's 3-0. It's 2-1.... Handling disappointment is a huge part of NBA basketball and it's a bigger part of playoff basketball."TIP-INSRaptors: Toronto had lost four consecutive Game 3s. ... Patrick McCaw (sprained right thumb) was active, but did not play. ... The Raptors are 6-1 in their last seven road games this season. ... Siakam has 73 points and 30 rebounds in the series.Magic: Among the former Orlando players in the building were Tracy McGrady, Jameer Nelson and Horace Grant. ... Orlando missed three shots at the rim in one third-quarter possession. Vucevic missed at the rim, and Aaron Gordon couldn't convert on two putback tries. ... Attendance was 19,367, the second-most in the Amway Center's nine-season history.DOUBLING UPFriday was historic for Toronto. It marked only the second time that the NBA's Raptors and NHL's Maple Leafs won a playoff game on the same day; the Leafs won in Boston. The only other time that happened was April 26, 2001 — the day when the Raptors got their first postseason victory.GOVERNOR SPEAKSFlorida Gov. Ron DeSantis and the state's first lady Casey DeSantis were in attendance and received Magic "46" jerseys — a nod to his being the 46th governor of the Sunshine State. The governor and Magic CEO Alex Martins spoke pregame about the hope for Orlando to get another All-Star Game soon, though all through 2022 has already been awarded to other Eastern Conference cities — and Milwaukee, another East city, has expressed interest in 2023.UP NEXTGame 4 is Sunday night in Orlando.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTORONTO — Kept off the scoreboard in a Game 1 defeat, Toronto Raptors guard Kyle Lowry was "at his finest" in Game 2, at least in the eyes of coach Nick Nurse.Fellow All-Star Kawhi Leonard wasn't too bad, either.Leonard scored 37 points, Lowry bounced back with 22 and the Raptors routed the Orlando Magic 111-82 on Tuesday night, evening their Eastern Conference first-round series at one win apiece.Pascal Siakam had 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who never trailed and led by as many as 34.Game 3 is Friday night in Orlando.Leonard said Lowry "led us in intensity," helping the East's No. 2 seed avoid a 2-0 hole."He did a great job of bouncing back," Leonard said. "He's a pro. That's what pros do, they know it's just one game and they come in the next game ready to play."Lowry, who missed all seven attempts in Game 1, shot 8 for 13 and led his team with seven assists."He was big time tonight," Nurse said. "That's him at his finest."Siakam said Lowry was visibly more tuned in Tuesday than he was Saturday."From the jump he had that fire in his eyes," Siakam said. "That's the Kyle we know."Despite playing in foul trouble for much of the night, Leonard finished with a career playoff-high 15 field goals. He made his first nine attempts from inside the arc before missing a layup.Leonard shot 15 for 22 before leaving to a standing ovation with 4:46 remaining and Toronto ahead 104-73."Leonard was great," Magic coach Steve Clifford said. "What are you going to do? He was great."Leonard's career playoff high is 43, set with San Antonio against Memphis on April 22, 2017. He made 14 baskets in that game."Tonight he was just in a groove, getting downhill, getting to his spots," Lowry said. "He's a player who knows where he wants to be on the floor and when he gets to those spots, he's pretty tough to guard."Aaron Gordon scored 20 points, Terrence Ross had 15 and Evan Fournier 10 for the Magic, who won the opener 104-101 on a tiebreaking 3 by D.J. Augustin with 4.2 seconds to go.Nikola Vucevic, who shot 3 for 14 in Game 1, struggled again in Game 2, going 3 of 7 and scoring six points."They did a good job taking away a lot of my strengths," Vucevic said. "I've just got to figure out a way to be more aggressive, be more efficient offensively."Augustin, who had 25 points Saturday, shot 1 for 6. Seven of his nine points came at the free throw line.Orlando didn't score for almost five minutes to start the game, missing its first six shots and four straight free throws. The drought ended when Gordon rebounded and scored on Vucevic's miss from the line at 7:14 of the first, answering an 11-0 Toronto run.Leonard scored 12 points in the opening quarter as the Raptors led 26-18 after one."Their defense set the tone for the game in the first quarter," Clifford said.Lowry scored 11 points in the second and Siakam added six, putting Toronto up 51-39 at halftime. Orlando shot 13 for 40 in the opening two quarters.Leonard connected of seven of nine attempts in the third, scoring 17 points. The Raptors outscored the Magic 39-27 to take a 90-66 lead into the fourth."At halftime, I thought we had settled down," Clifford said. "Then, at the beginning of the third quarter, they were good and, frankly, we were awful."TIP-INSMagic: Orlando missed its first five free throw attempts before Ross made two of three at 2:11 of the first. The Magic shot 8 for 16 at the line in the first half and finished 13 for 24. ... Ross had 15 of Orlando's 17 bench points in the first half. ... The Magic were outscored 52-36 in the paint. ... Orlando has outrebounded Toronto in all six meetings this season.Raptors: Lowry snapped his scoring slump by splitting a pair of free throws at 10:48 of the first, leading to thunderous applause. He was cheered again after hitting a 3 at 6:52. ... Only four players scored in the first half. Leonard had 17, Lowry 15, Siakam 12 and Serge Ibaka 7. ... Toronto has won nine straight playoff games in which it makes more 3-pointers than its opponent. Toronto shot 11 for 35 Tuesday, while Orlando was 9 for 34. ... G Patrick McCaw (sprained right thumb) was not available despite practicing the previous two days. ... Toronto is 8-8 all time in Game 2s.TURNED OVEROrlando had just 11 turnovers in Game 1 but gave the ball away 17 times in Game 2, including on both of its opening two possessions."If we're going to make this a long series, and hopefully we will, we're going to need to be stronger with the ball," Gordon said. "Simple as that."HOME SWEET HOMEOrlando has won nine straight at home and is unbeaten on its own court since a Feb. 22 loss to Chicago."We feed off the crowd, we like their energy," Gordon said.UP NEXTGame 3 is Friday night in Orlando.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTORONTO — For the Orlando Magic, the first game of the playoffs felt a lot like the final few weeks of the regular season: high stakes, small margins, and a big win at the end of the day.D.J. Augustin scored 25 points, including the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 3.5 seconds left, and the Magic beat the Toronto Raptors 104-101 in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round series on Saturday.Kawhi Leonard got a final shot for Toronto, but missed the rim with his 3-pointer from the top.Orlando went 22-9 over the final 31 games of the season to clinch its first playoff berth since 2012."I think it helps," Magic coach Steve Clifford said of his team's tough regular-season finish. "We've been playing games that we had to win and were meaningful games for a while."Nikola Vucevic, who scored 11 points, said Orlando's stretch drive help the team's mental preparation for the grind of the postseason."Throughout this last month, we were able to fight through a lot of different adversity and it has kind of prepared us for the playoffs," Vucevic said.And, when crunch time arrived in Game 1, Orlando was entirely unfazed."We made a bunch of big plays in the last three or four minutes," Clifford said.Aaron Gordon had 10 points and 10 rebounds, Evan Fournier scored 16 points and Jonathan Isaac had 11 as the No. 7-seeded Magic became the latest team to beat Toronto in the opening game of a playoff series. The Raptors are 2-14 in playoff openers."We know who we are and this is one game," Toronto's Kyle Lowry said. "We've got to make sure we know who we are and execute what we can do. When we do what we are supposed to do, we are really, really good."Leonard scored 25 points, Pascal Siakam had 24 and Fred VanVleet had 14 for the second-seeded Raptors, who reclaimed the lead after trailing by 16 points in the second quarter, but couldn't hold on down the stretch.Toronto got 13 points apiece from Danny Green and Marc Gasol, but Lowry finished scoreless, missing all seven of his attempts. Lowry did have eight assists and seven rebounds."He had some really good looks that he's normally going to knock down," coach Nick Nurse said. "I'm sure he'll bounce back and play a little better in the next game."Leonard hit a tying 3 with 1:35 left, then put Toronto up 101-99 with a jumper at 1:02. Augustin made a layup to tie it again with 44 seconds left, then connected from long range for the fourth time to win the game.Gasol said he and Leonard got their defensive assignments mixed up on Augustin's decisive shot, leaving the guard wide open."It was a mistake made on that play," Gasol said. "We miscommunicated and he made a good shot."Augustin's 3 was the seventh lead change of the final quarter and the 13th of the game."When I saw the opening, I shot the ball with confidence and it went in," he said.Augustin made 9 of 13 attempts, going 4 of 5 from beyond the arc.Leonard made all four of his attempts in the first and added a pair of free throws. He scored 11 points in the opening quarter as Toronto led 30-25.Leading 42-41 with 3:46 remaining in the second, Orlando got 10 points from Augustin in a 15-0 run that put the Magic up 57-41 with 55 seconds left. Siakam stopped Toronto's drought with a jump shot, and Gasol and Green added 3-pointers but the Raptors trailed 57-49 at halftime.Leonard scored five points as Toronto used a 12-2 spurt at the start of the third, reclaiming the lead on Gasol's 3 at 8:19. Siakam scored eight points in the third, while Leonard and Green each had seven, as the Raptors took a narrow 76-75 lead to the fourth.TIP-INSMagic: F Jonathan Isaac (concussion) and Nikola Vucevic (illness) both started after missing Orlando's regular-season finale Wednesday. ...Vucevic didn't score in the first quarter, missing all three of his attempts.Raptors: Toronto shot 3 for 10 from 3-point range in the first quarter, and 3 for 11 in the second. The Raptors finished 12 for 36 from outside. ... Siakam had nine rebounds.HERO'S WELCOMEFormer Raptors C Jonas Valanciunas got a huge ovation when he walked to his baseline seat near the Toronto bench a few minutes before the tipoff. Valanciunas, C.J. Miles and Delon Wright were traded to Memphis in February for Gasol.END OF THE LINEToronto failed to score at least 110 points for the first time in 10 games. The Raptors sett a franchise record by scoring 110 or more in nine straight games to finish the regular season.UP NEXTGame 2 is Tuesday night in Toronto___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Dwyane Wade was hurting, sitting on the training table trying to get enough treatment to get him on the floor one last time.A couple of hours later, he looked like a guy capable of playing well beyond the final night of his career.Wade had 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in his last NBA game, which the Brooklyn Nets won by beating the Miami Heat 113-94 on Wednesday night to finish 42-40 and clinch the No. 6 seed in the Eastern Conference.With close friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony leading the cheers from their courtside seats, Wade had his fifth career triple-double in three quarters. He fittingly secured it with a pass to Udonis Haslem, his teammate of 15 years who plays sparingly now and made his only start of the season."I was like, I don't know why, but everybody feels like now you've got to go out and score 60 in your last game because Kobe did it," said Wade, wearing a sparkling gold jacket and gold sneakers. "So hopefully I took the bar all the way back down and say let's go get a triple-double, that's easier."A night after scoring 30 points in his final game in Miami, Wade showed one more time that he's walking away with his skills intact.He played 36 minutes, dribbling out the shot clock the final time he had the ball before checking out with 10 seconds remaining. Then it was time for a lengthy postgame celebration on the court with teammates and friends."The man went out with a triple-double. Don't let that go unnoticed. He had a triple-double," All-Star D'Angelo Russell said. "He is a guy that paved the way for a lot of us. He's been with that franchise for that long period of time. He's Mr. Miami."Russell had 21 points on seven 3-pointers for the Nets, who will face the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers beginning this weekend in their first postseason appearance since 2015, one that seemed unlikely when they were 8-18 in December. But they went 34-22 from there for their first winning record since going 44-38 in 2013-14 — when they were knocked out by Wade's Heat in the second round."Special night," Nets coach Kenny Atkinson said. "Pretty amazing season so far."The game mattered only to the Nets, who quickly ended any fears of finishing seventh and having to face the Toronto Raptors in the first round.But that was secondary to a last chance to celebrate Wade, the three-time NBA champion who was ending his 16th and final NBA season.He was loudly cheered from the moment he emerged alone from the tunnel for pregame layups. Fans — egged on at one point by Paul and Anthony — chanted "We want Wade! We want Wade!" when he was on the bench, even though the 37-year-old guard had played a season-high 35 minutes Tuesday and coach Erik Spoelstra warned before the game that it probably wouldn't be that way again.But there was no keeping Wade down for long. It took him a little bit to get going, as Jarrett Allen added Wade to the list of stars whose shots he's blocked this season — a list that included James."I loved seeing CP and Melo over there getting the crowd going to get Dwyane back in there and Dwyane comes from the old-school NBA," Spoelstra said. "That was pre-load management, so we were not load managing him tonight and I was not talking to my sports scientist whether he could go, even though I walked in and saw him on that training table an hour before the game and he did not look fit to go, at all. But he's cut from a different cloth."The Heat hoped the final game would matter, but the Nets and Orlando Magic had clinched spots over the weekend to leave only one spot left coming into the last week. Miami was eliminated from contention for it despite its victory Tuesday."For me, I'm happy with this season," Wade said. "Unfortunately for our organization and our team, we weren't able to put ourselves in a position to win enough games to be in the playoffs, but for what I wanted for this season, I'm happy to say that I completed that."TIP-INSHeat: Haslem finished with 12 points and 11 rebounds. ... Wade passed Elgin Baylor (23,149 points) to move into 29th place on the NBA's career list. He finished with 23,165.Nets: Starters Joe Harris (toe) and DeMarre Carroll (right wrist) sat out, though Atkinson said they would be ready for the playoff opener. ... Shabazz Napier scored 20 points off the bench.THE LAST JERSEYWade has been exchanging jerseys with players after games this season, but there was one missing. Anthony, who helped persuade Wade to return this season, didn't play long this season before parting ways with Houston. So Wade gave his final one to him."I didn't get an opportunity to play against Melo this year and exchange jerseys with him," Wade said. "That was a missing piece out of this whole season, so everything worked out great for him being here, for me having an opportunity to give him my jersey."___UP NEXTHeat: The offseason.Nets: A first-round playoff matchup against the Philadelphia 76ers.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPascal Siakam confidently launches shots he may not have dared attempt in previous seasons. He makes plays during times of the game when he would have been sitting on the bench.The Toronto Raptors forward might be the leading candidate for the most improved player award and he'd like to win it. But he's already received recognition that means more to him.Fellow players have noticed how much work he's put in and how much it has paid off this season. The acknowledgement from All-Stars such as Paul George and Bradley Beal shows that Siakam's giant leap has caught the attention of more than just the media panel that votes for the NBA awards."I just enjoy sometimes after the games, guys coming up to me and showing respect for me. That's the most important thing," Siakam said. "Like, I don't care about the rest. I think when your peers respect your game and respect the fact that they've seen you work, I think that's more important."There's a lot for them to have noticed, including:— Siakam's scoring. It is up from 6.0 points per game through his first two seasons to 17.0 this season.— His 3-point shooting. That's jumped from 21.6 percent to 36.8 percent.A player who was feared almost entirely for his work around the basket now has to be accounted for even when he's away from it. Brooklyn coach Kenny Atkinson called Siakam an X-factor who now demands a much bigger part of the scouting report."It changes because he's shooting the ball better," Atkinson said. "I think at first you could ignore his shot. Now it's like you've got to respect him from 3 and I know he's worked on it extremely hard, so that changes it."You could be in the paint, wait for his drives. You still have to respect (that) but I think he keeps getting better and better."D'Angelo Russell, Atkinson's All-Star point guard, might be the other top candidate for most improved player after leading the Nets to a surprising playoff berth. Sacramento's De'Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield, Denver's Malik Beasley and the Clippers' Montrezl Harrell are some other players worthy of consideration.But of them, Siakam has the biggest role on the team with the best chance to be playing into June.The Raptors made major changes after they were swept out of the postseason by LeBron James and Cleveland in consecutive years. Dwane Casey was fired even after winning coach of the year honors, and All-Star DeMar DeRozan was dealt to San Antonio in the trade to bring in Kawhi Leonard.The Raptors have come back with 57 wins and the second-best record in the East, with Siakam's growth central to their success. He can play in a traditional big lineup alongside Leonard and center Marc Gasol, or in a smaller one if they go with Serge Ibaka in the middle.The athleticism was always there for the 6-foot-9 forward. But now it's only part of the package for a player who made one 3-pointer his entire rookie season in 2016-17 and now averages one per game, the easiest place to notice his improvement."I don't know who else is even really up for it, who the voting's between, all that stuff. I know that if anybody's done more than this kid, has improved more, has impacted the team more and continued to improve from even geez, 20 games ago," Raptors coach Nick Nurse said. "He just keeps taking another step forward, there has been no steps back."He's certainly deserving. If there's somebody else who is deserving, then sometimes that's the way it works. But he's had an unbelievable season."Soon it will be time for the Raptors to show how much they've improved along with him. They became postseason punching bags the last couple years who want to show they won't be pushed around any longer."We have a new group so it's going to be definitely tough and I think we're more focused on that," Siakam said. "Obviously we think about the playoffs, we're excited about it, can't wait for it. We just want to make sure we get the right chemistry and everything going so when that time comes, we'll be ready to perform."He got into only two playoff games two years ago, when the native of Cameroon was still learning the game. It was only five years earlier when he had come through the Basketball Without Borders camp in Africa, then headed to Texas for prep school and onto New Mexico State before becoming a late first-round pick.He's not sure if friends back home are aware of his success. But if he wins the Most Improved Player award, chances are they'll hear about it."I'm definitely not a personal-type guy where I care about personal accolades and stuff, but definitely a team-guy first," Siakam said. "Something like that, in terms of who I am and the person that I've become, and people that know my story and how I came up, that would mean a lot just because that's me. Like, that's literally who I am as a player and as a person."______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — The longest active streak of missing the NBA playoffs belongs to Sacramento, where general manager Vlade Divac has been trying to return the Kings to the league's elite over the last four seasons.Back when the slick-passing Serbian big man was in the paint, the Kings had quite the run. For his impact on the NBA as one of the pioneering Eastern Europeans, Divac was announced Saturday as one of the 12 honorees in the 2019 class of the Basketball Hall of Fame."We created something special there, the first day of training camp that led us," said Divac, who played for Sacramento from 1998-2004, with a peak in 2002 when the Kings lost to the Los Angeles Lakers in overtime of Game 7 of the Western Conference finals. "For six years, we were the most exciting team in the league and really played basketball the right way."The class will be enshrined at the Hall of Fame in Springfield, Massachusetts, on Sept. 6. Selected this year with Divac were NBA players Carl Braun, Chuck Cooper, Bobby Jones, Sidney Moncrief, Jack Sikma and Paul Westphal, NBA coach Bill Fitch, NBA contributor Al Attles, WNBA player Teresa Weatherspoon, the 1957-59 teams from Tennessee A&I and the Wayland Baptist University program.Divac, who was elected directly by the international committee, played 16 years in the NBA, including eight with the Lakers. The 7-foot-1 Divac had his jersey retired by the Kings after helping them start a streak of eight straight postseason appearances upon his arrival. They never advanced past the conference finals, a surge that coincided with the Lakers dynasty of Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal.One of Divac's fellow starters on those Kings teams was Chris Webber, who wasn't included in the class. Now an analyst for CBS Sports, Webber quickly sent Divac a congratulatory message after the announcement in Minneapolis at the Final Four."For the last five or six days when I found out I was going to be there, I was only hoping that he was going to be next me," Divac said. "I'm sure it's going to happen down the road, but it would be awesome if he was right next to me."Moncrief and Sikma, who were elected by the North American committee, were teammates with the Milwaukee Bucks from 1986-89. The seven-time All-Star Sikma, who won an NBA title in his second season with the Seattle SuperSonics, set a record with the Bucks in 1988 as the only center in history to lead the league in free-throw percentage at 92.2. Sikma is now a consultant with the Toronto Raptors, who are in second place in the Eastern Conference behind the resurgent Bucks."My hope is we get in the conference finals and we're facing the Bucks, and then I'll kind of keep my thoughts to myself a little bit," Sikma said, smiling.Moncrief was a five-time All-Star and two-time NBA Defensive Player of the Year in the mid-1980s for the Bucks, who lost in the Eastern Conference finals three times during his career. Moncrief also reached the Final Four in his final season at Arkansas, 1978-79, under coach Eddie Sutton, for whom he gave credit for instilling in him the fundamentals that carried him to professional success."You'd take a four-hour practice: three hours on defense. Seriously," Moncrief said. "And they wonder why I couldn't shoot when I got to the NBA! I didn't shoot. I just played defense."Weatherspoon, who was elected by the women's committee, was a five-time WNBA All-Star for the New York Liberty who was the first in the league to reach 1,000 points and 1,000 assists. She led Louisiana Tech to an NCAA championship in 1988.Jones and Westphal were the other players elected by the North American committee. Jones was an eight-time NBA All-Defensive first team pick and four-time All-Star with the Philadelphia 76ers, winning a title with them in 1983. Westphal was a five-time All-Star who won a championship with the Boston Celtics in 1974.Fitch coached in the NBA for 255 seasons, leading the Celtics to a title in 1981 and still holding the franchise's best winning percentage at .738. The other election by the North American committee was the Tennessee A&I teams that won NAIA championships in 1957, 1958 and 1959. The program now known as Tennessee State was the first to win three straight titles in any college division.Attles was a direct election by the contributor committee. He played for the Philadelphia Warriors from 1960-71 and later was a coach, executive and ambassador for the organization. Cooper, who died in 1984, was directly elected by the early African American pioneers committee. He was an All-American at Duquesne in 1950 and the first African American player drafted by an NBA team. Braun, directly elected by the veterans committee, died in 2010. He was a five-time NBA All-Star who won a title with the Boston Celtics in 1962.Wayland Baptist, elected directly by the women's veterans committee, was among the first women's programs to award scholarships. Under the guidance of coach Harley Redin, the small school in West Texas won 131 straight games from 1953-58 and 10 national championships overall.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Rajon Rondo has had a difficult time for the Lakers. He was suspended after brawling with the Houston Rockets in the second game of the season. He proceeded to mangle his right hand not just once, but twice, requiring surgery both times while missing a total of 31 games. And in recent weeks, he has been coming off the bench for Coach Luke Walton, even as Lonzo Ball, who had been starting at point guard, continues to recover from an ankle injury.Rondo, a 13-year pro, was supposed to be an invaluable presence for the Lakers, who had otherwise surrounded LeBron James in Year 1 of the West Coast LeBron era with a cast of unproven (if promising) players and a hodgepodge of reclamation projects. Nobody thought this team would vie for a championship, but the road has been rougher than expected.In the wake of a recent two-game road trip to New Orleans and Memphis that resulted in two deflating losses and the very real sense that the Lakers could miss the playoffs, Walton approached Rondo for a quiet conversation. Walton wanted to put him back in the starting lineup for Wednesday’s game against the Pelicans, and Rondo was on board with the plan.After all, what did the Lakers have to lose? Aside from losing another game that they desperately needed to win.“We sat there and talked,” Walton said. “He’s been fine with his role. He wants to play more — everyone wants to play more. But he hasn’t been complaining or anything like that. But our conversation was one of: ‘Let’s talk about what we need to do. How do we get back on track?’ It was an honest conversation. It was healthy and positive.”As far as confidence-building exercises go, the Lakers’ subsequent 125-119 victory over the Pelicans was not necessarily Grade A material. The Pelicans have their own issues, and their star center Anthony Davis, who had hoped to be playing for the Lakers after this month’s trade deadline, was on a strict minutes limit as the Pelicans eye a summer sweepstakes for his services. (They would like to keep his limbs intact in the meantime.)But Walton’s favorite verb after the game was “need,” as in the Lakers needed the win and needed some positive vibes.Sure enough, Rondo helped a great deal, finishing with 16 assists, 11 points and 7 rebounds in 37 minutes.“I’m very confident in what Rondo has done in this league,” Walton said. “He’s struggled a little bit, but some of that’s on me. His minutes have been down. We’ve been trying to find different groups to work. But he’s proven over his career that when he gets an opportunity, he shows up to play.”Rondo was not particularly adept from the perimeter, shooting 5 of 15 from the field, and Davis feasted on the Lakers’ smaller lineup when he was on the court. Walton knows those could be more pressing issues against better teams. But for one night, the Lakers (30-31) allowed themselves to savor some hard-earned momentum — because it might not last.The Lakers, who have been hindered this season by injuries and trade-deadline intrigue, are not a great basketball team. The question is whether they are merely mediocre, with a chance of still making the playoffs, or not very good at all, in which case they will have wasted their first year with James on the roster.It hardly helps that the Lakers have one of the league’s most difficult schedules the rest of the way, starting Friday when they host the Milwaukee Bucks, who improved to 47-14 on Wednesday with a win against the Sacramento Kings. The Lakers’ coming schedule also includes meetings with playoff-bound teams like the Denver Nuggets and the Toronto Raptors.“Every day is going to be its own challenge,” James said, adding: “Just try to stay positive throughout whatever’s going on.”Rondo had experienced his own set of challenges ahead of Wednesday’s game. He was coming off a pair of dreadful performances during the team’s recent two-game trip, averaging 4.5 points and 2 assists off the bench while shooting 36.4 percent from the field. He was a nonfactor, or perhaps even a net negative.“I didn’t have the rhythm on both ends of the floor,” Rondo said. “That’s why we have 82 games. You have the opportunity to play again and redeem yourself.”At Wednesday’s shootaround, center Tyson Chandler kept yelling, “energy, energy, energy,” Rondo said. And during the game itself, the players focused on their body language — lots of hugs and high-fives — in addition to actually playing some defense for a change. Walton was also pleased that the Lakers had 37 assists to go with just eight turnovers.“It’s a lot of fun when your guys are playing like that,” he said.Forget that the Pelicans are struggling. Forget that James needed to sink a fadeaway 3-pointer from the corner with 31.3 seconds left to seal the win and sidestep disaster. Forget that Julius Randle, a center the Lakers let walk in free agency last summer, torched his old team for 35 points in the loss.Forget all this until Friday, when Rondo and the rest of the Lakers are sure to face an even stiffer challenge.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel VictorIn his two years as president of basketball operations for the Los Angeles Lakers, Magic Johnson presided over a team as chaotic and playoff-free as the one he’d inherited.The Lakers succeeded in stockpiling talent — including the franchise-altering signing of LeBron James — but failed in putting together complementary pieces, or attracting the second major star Johnson openly said he was chasing.[Magic Johnson stunned the basketball world by suddenly stepping down on Tuesday.]Here’s a look back at Johnson’s high and low points while running the team.In February 2017, four seasons into the team’s longest-ever playoff drought, the Lakers reshuffled their front office by firing the general manager, Mitch Kupchak, and installing Johnson as its president. Less than a month later, Rob Pelinka, a longtime agent, was hired as the general manager, reporting to Johnson.Officially and unofficially, Johnson had remained tied to the team since he retired in 1996. He owned a share of the team from 1994 to 2010, and after that he was an honorary vice president — a title the team took away from him after he violated the league’s tampering rules by tweeting about free agents.Three weeks before he was hired in his new role, he had returned to the Lakers as an adviser to Jeanie Buss, the team’s president and co-owner. She would soon clean house while promoting Johnson.“Everyone associated with the Lakers will now be pulling in the same direction, the direction established by Earvin and myself,” she said, using Johnson’s given name. “We are determined to get back to competing to win N.B.A. championships again.”The first major test of the new regime had decidedly mixed results.Days before the draft, Johnson shed the costly contract of Timofey Mozgov by giving up on D’Angelo Russell, whom the team had selected second over all just two years earlier. In return for the duo, the Brooklyn Nets gave up Brook Lopez and the 27th pick in the draft, which turned into the promising Kyle Kuzma. But Russell has blossomed this year with the Nets, earning an All-Star appearance while leading Brooklyn back to the playoffs.Russell’s departure opened the point guard spot for Lonzo Ball, who has flashed two-way potential but largely fallen short of his lofty expectations as the second pick in the draft. In addition to Kuzma, the Lakers struck gold with Josh Hart, who was selected 30th and has become a core piece.Johnson made no secret of his intent to draw the game’s biggest stars to Los Angeles, with an eye toward what was expected to be a major 2018 off-season. The team largely punted on the 2017 off-season to preserve its salary cap space in 2018, signing Kentavious Caldwell-Pope to a one-year deal.At the 2018 trade deadline, the Lakers shed the contracts of Jordan Clarkson and Larry Nance Jr., opening more cap space. Johnson said the trade indicated the Lakers would have the cap space and the ability to land two star players, either by trade or free agency.“I wouldn’t have made the move if I wasn’t confident,” he said at the time.Signing LeBron James to a long-term contract in 2018 was exactly the kind of result the Lakers had planned for and needed, setting expectations that they would return to the playoffs and compete for a championship. But the free agents the Lakers signed to surround him — Caldwell-Pope, Rajon Rondo, Lance Stephenson, JaVale McGee and Michael Beasley — immediately puzzled some observers.An optimist would have called them playoff-tested veterans. Others saw it differently: A cast of nonshooters and big personalities who would have a questionable fit next to James and the Lakers’ young talent.The hodgepodge crew was assembled partly because the team struck out on its bigger targets. After years of speculation that Paul George would return to his hometown, he instead opted to re-sign with Oklahoma City. The San Antonio Spurs sent Kawhi Leonard east to the Toronto Raptors. DeMarcus Cousins signed a bargain, one-year deal with the Golden State Warriors.Once the season arrived, the Lakers blew it in dramatic fashion, extending their record playoff drought. But they preserved cap space for the 2019 off-season, giving them another chance to add a star.There could be little doubt the Lakers would be interested in Anthony Davis as soon as he became available. James and Davis share an agent, and the Lakers were long believed to be Davis’s most committed suitor.But when the All-Star center made a public trade request in late January, he created a debacle for Johnson and the Lakers. The players in the Lakers’ young core — Ball, Kuzma, Hart and Brandon Ingram, the second overall pick from the 2016 draft — were constantly named in leaked trade offers.The Pelicans made an effort to head off any potential tampering when they announced Davis’s trade request. “We have also requested the League to strictly enforce the tampering rules associated with this transaction,” the team said in a statement.In addition to Davis’s connections to the Lakers, Los Angeles had a well-known history of tampering, dating back to Johnson’s tweets before he took over.Johnson was not very subtle about recruiting George during a 2017 appearance on “Jimmy Kimmel Live,” during which he was asked what he would do if he saw the player socially.“We’re going to say hi because we know each other, you just can’t say, ‘Hey, I want you to come to the Lakers,’ even though I’ll be wink-winking like, ‘You know what that means, right?’ ”The episode earned Johnson a warning from the N.B.A., and the team was later fined $500,000 for what the league deemed impermissible contact between Pelinka and George’s agent.In June 2018, Johnson was fined $50,000 for his comments about Giannis Antetokounmpo after praising the Bucks star.In February, the Sixers’ Ben Simmons — who plays as an oversize point guard, like Johnson did — requested a meeting with Johnson to get playing tips, prompting Johnson to publicly praise the former Rookie of the Year. But the league ultimately determined Johnson had not broken tampering rules.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alex WongScott Van Pelt closed an episode of “SportsCenter” last month with a two-minute monologue about the 31st anniversary of his father’s death. Strengthened by two friends who had recently lost their parents, Van Pelt spoke passionately about running from grief, and encouraged everyone to do the opposite — to articulate their pain so they could overcome it.The segment went viral. It embodied the essential traits of Van Pelt’s version of ESPN’s flagship show — sensitivity, nuance and the courage to be vulnerable — that help him connect with viewers.“It’s a great reminder of the power of the microphone we hold in our hands,” Van Pelt said.But that power is changing — disappearing, even — as television viewing habits change and sports media develop new ways to bring fans what they want when they want it. (Now!) That means what was once a premier placement in TV sports — the anchor desk — is not the high perch it used to be. It is not clear anymore what it is at all.Not so long ago, sports fans operated on a schedule dictated by the programming that was available on TV. The sports highlight show, “SportsCenter” being the most popular one, was appointment viewing.It was where sports fans went to see the highlights they could only read about in the newspaper. People came to know its anchors: Keith Olbermann, Linda Cohn, Stuart Scott, Robin Roberts, Dan Patrick, to name a few. They complemented the sports clips with their own personalities and, in the case of Scott, redefined the highlight show genre.But today, highlights flood fans’ Twitter timelines immediately: a buzzer beater on loop seconds after it drops through the net; a touchdown from multiple angles before referees have ruled it good. They flood our Instagram feeds thanks to users like House of Highlights, which delivers the day’s most important sports highlights to more than 12 million followers.“SportsCenter,” even with six editions each weekday, can no longer dangle the carrot of providing clips unavailable anywhere else. On most nights, when the highlight package rolls, Van Pelt is telling a majority of the viewers about something they have already seen.“Every person covering sports is trying to figure out the riddle,” Van Pelt said. He asked how a program could deliver highlights “to you in a way that you will want it and convince yourself that you will need it.”Omar Raja, 24, is the founder of House of Highlights. He grew up watching sports highlights on the local news with his father every morning. When Kobe Bryant scored 81 points against the Toronto Raptors in 2006, he did not find out about it until he turned on his TV the next morning.“It’s crazy to think 10 years ago, we had to wait until the next day to find out what happened the night before,” Raja said.Raja’s team can now offer instant access to what everyone is talking about. But Raja thinks traditional and new-age highlights delivery systems can coexist. He still watches “SportsCenter,” after all, especially Van Pelt’s midnight edition.“I don’t really listen to him for the highlights,” Raja said. “I just listen to him for his thoughts on things. He’s a good personality, and he’s charismatic.”When Van Pelt took over as anchor in 2015, he said, he decided to lean on his personality and trust the audience to connect with his curiosity about sports.Per ESPN, Van Pelt has consistently generated higher ratings among 18-to 34-year-old men in his midnight time slot than late-night talk shows on broadcast or cable. Other sports anchors have tried a similar approach, to lesser degrees of success.Jay Onrait and Dan O’Toole’s show on Fox Sports went through several iterations before pivoting toward a late-night show format; it was canceled in 2017. Jemele Hill and Michael Smith were chosen to overhaul the 6 p.m. “SportsCenter,” but the reformatted show — called “SC6” or “The Six” — lasted a little more than a year before it was broken up in 2018. During its run, Hill was criticized for a post to her personal Twitter account about President Trump, and for another about the N.F.L., for which ESPN suspended her.“To ignore the racial component and the climate that they faced would be completely dishonest,” Van Pelt said of Hill and Smith, who are African-American. “They faced challenges that I didn’t face. They also didn’t have the benefits that I have.”Those benefits include a midnight slot that allows Van Pelt to experiment in front of a smaller potential audience, and stronger lead-ins from “Monday Night Football” during the N.F.L. season.Onrait, who now hosts “Jay and Dan” on TSN in Canada at midnight, has adopted the sensibilities of a late-night talk-show host in this turn as a sports anchor.“Personality is what’s going to rule the next phase of television,” Onrait said.Others, such as Skip Bayless of Fox Sports, combine so-called “hot takes” with continuous criticism of high-profile athletes like LeBron James to connect with viewers.“The only thing that really worked at Fox was Skip,” Onrait said. “Nothing was working until Skip showed up. No one got ratings. I know lots of people have made a living out of crapping on the guy, but what he did was bring actual viewers to the network. He was the only one who did that.”In a statement to The New York Times, Norby Williamson, an ESPN executive who oversees “SportsCenter,” pushed back against the idea that the show is becoming obsolete.“We recognize that people have many options for viewing highlights now, but we continue to develop presentations that you’re not going to see anywhere else,” Williamson said. “We’ll show you what happened but also how it happened and why.”While ESPN still sees its network and the “SportsCenter” franchise as vital to the fan’s experience, what really matters is whether viewers will continue to see it this way.Van Pelt knows that reckoning is coming soon.“I keep thinking to myself this is a short window,” Van Pelt said. “It won’t go on forever.”An earlier version of this article misstated the number of editions of “SportsCenter” each weekday. There are six, not four.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaSACRAMENTO — The Boston Celtics were not in a good place when they boarded a plane bound for California on Sunday. They were coming off a home loss to the Houston Rockets that point guard Kyrie Irving punctuated by using a total of 43 words to answer nine questions in his postgame news conference.At one point, he was asked whether he thought the team could cobble together some momentum on its West Coast trip.“We’ll see,” he whispered.Just one season removed from a run to the N.B.A.’s Eastern Conference finals, and seemingly improved by the re-addition of Gordon Hayward and the continued development of their young core, the Celtics were on the brink of falling apart. Any hope they still harbored of being a championship-ready team was as brittle as a toothpick.But after some reflection and conversation, the Celtics regained a bit of their swagger with back-to-back wins this week against the Golden State Warriors and the Sacramento Kings. The Celtics will see if they can keep the good vibes going on Saturday against the Los Angeles Lakers, which is anything but certain, especially for Irving, whose season has been clouded by questions about his future with the team.Such uncertainty does not make Irving unique in the modern N.B.A. — Kevin Durant of the Warriors and Kawhi Leonard of the Toronto Raptors are among the other stars who will weigh big decisions in free agency this summer — but the Celtics have let the noise affect them.With the two wins this week improving their record to 40-26, the Celtics may be showing signs that they are finally, mercifully, learning how to cope.“That long plane ride helped us out,” Irving said after Tuesday’s lopsided victory over the Warriors. “I’ll just say that. We needed it. We needed it. We were going to get to a point where we were just going to get tired of fighting each other, fighting the outside world when it doesn’t really matter. So we just wanted to come out here and play basketball.“This is our sanctuary, and we have to do everything we can to protect it. We can’t let anyone infiltrate it.”Irving, who missed Wednesday’s win against the Kings with a left thigh contusion, is averaging a team-leading 23.4 points a game along with 7 assists and 4.9 rebounds, both career highs. He is also shooting 49.5 percent from the field and 41.7 percent from 3-point range.He also ranks among the N.B.A. leaders in mercurial behavior. He has been vague about the specific source of his discontent, but it may have something to do with his pending free agency.Irving backed off an earlier pledge to re-sign with the Celtics after they struggled at the start of the season. In fact, during a trip to New York to play the Knicks on Feb. 1, he told a group of reporters in his own colorfully abrasive way that he did not owe anyone anything. The Knicks, of course, would be interested in signing Irving, a six-time All-Star who grew up in New Jersey and has a soft spot for Madison Square Garden.Then came the All-Star break, and a clip of Irving and Durant having an inaudible conversation found its way to the internet, where an army of amateur lip readers tried to decode what they were saying. Worth noting: Irving and Durant are close friends. Also worth noting: The Knicks will have enough cap space this summer for two max contracts.Irving refused to shed light on their chat, and said it was nobody’s business, which was his prerogative. But it had the general effect of using a napkin to mop up an oil spill.Since then, Irving has been alluding to nefarious forces and the steep cost of celebrity, saying he hates the spotlight — even as he sells sneakers and moonlights as an actor. He reiterated his disdain this week after collecting 19 points and 11 assists against the Warriors, his 17th double-double this season.“The business part of it is just what makes it terrible for me — honestly, dealing with all this,” he said, referring to the reporters around him. “I’m going to be honest with you guys: The basketball part of it? I have to keep that fun. That’s where I’m great. Being around my teammates, that’s what makes me happy. And the business part of it is going to be business.”It was not lost on anyone who witnessed this exchange that Irving was bashing the business of basketball while wearing an Uncle Drew ball cap — the same Uncle Drew character he popularized in soft drink commercials and then parlayed into a movie released last year.As for the basketball itself, well, Boston has had an uneven season, the product of a team that is not nearly Lakers-level dysfunctional but is not exactly cohesive, either. The Celtics arrived for their game against the Warriors having lost five of their last six games, and their locker room was a joyless place.Perhaps they needed to get away from Boston. Perhaps they needed perspective. Perhaps Irving needed to speak with Danny Ainge, the team’s president of basketball operations, and Brad Stevens, its coach, who reminded Irving that the team still had a lot of season left to play. It was not over, not yet, not by any stretch.“Every team has to find a togetherness in competing,” Stevens said. “Some teams, it takes 60 games. Some teams, it takes 20 games. And bad teams never get there. We hope that it took us 60 games, but we’ll see. We haven’t proven ourselves to be great at that yet for a long stretch of time.”In their 128-95 win against the Warriors, the Celtics had 38 assists on 49 field goals. They also communicated. When Irving and forward Jaylen Brown botched a play that led to an early turnover, Brown patted himself on the chest to apologize, then appeared to apologize a second time on their next trip up the court.The next night, in Sacramento, Irving sat behind the visiting bench for the Celtics’ 111-109 victory over the Kings. He was vocal. He did a lot of fist-pumping. And he celebrated when Hayward, less than 24 hours after scoring 30 points against the Warriors, connected on the game-winner.After suffering a grisly ankle injury in the opening game and missing last season, Hayward has struggled to find a rhythm in his return. Maybe he found it here in California, along with the rest of the team. The Celtics are too talented to let this opportunity go to waste, because who knows how long it will last?“As long as my teammates are feeling good,” Irving said, “then we’re in a good place.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLou Williams, who has the unusual role of leading the Clippers in scoring while coming off the bench, does not run around the court so much as flutter across it. At 6 feet 1 inch and 175 pounds, he has embraced his identity as a butterfly among a herd of cattle.But at this stage of his career, Williams wants to feel as light and nimble as possible — so he essentially starves himself on game days. After a big breakfast, he refuses to eat again until well after the game itself, often going nearly 12 hours between meals.It is one of several habits that Williams, 32, has developed over the years, and one that clearly works for him. It is also the opposite of how most elite athletes prepare for games. But Williams is different: He wants to take the court with an appetite.“That’s crazy,” Landry Shamet, the first-year Clippers guard, said. “I’d weigh about 115 pounds if I did that.”The Clippers, as they often have this season, turned to Williams on Monday night for an extraordinary performance — this time against the Golden State Warriors in Game 2 of their first-round playoff series. In the Clippers’ 135-131 win, Williams collected 36 points and 11 assists to help erase a 31-point deficit.Shamet sealed the biggest comeback in N.B.A. playoff history with a go-ahead 3-pointer with 16.5 seconds left, and the Clippers evened the best-of-seven series at one game apiece.“I’m one of those guys who can get hot,” said Williams, who shot 13 of 22 from the field, “and I just got lost in the moment.”The Clippers, who have thrived behind Williams in the wake of a midseason deal that sent Tobias Harris to the Philadelphia 76ers, will need all of him again — all his scoring, all his savvy, all his unusual rituals — when the Warriors come to Los Angeles for Game 3 on Thursday.Make no mistake, the Clippers have their share of scrappy, no-nonsense guys. Patrick Beverley, who has spent the series covering the Warriors’ Kevin Durant like aluminum foil, would trash talk a telephone pole.Williams, on the other hand, carries himself with a brand of quiet composure that has a power all its own.“He goes about his business,” said Sam Cassell, an assistant coach for the Clippers. “He’s not overwhelmingly faster than people. He’s not bigger than people. But he understands what he can do on the basketball court, and he does it well.”The Warriors’ Klay Thompson recently came across a package of highlight clips from Williams’s days as a star guard at South Gwinnett High School outside of Atlanta. What stood out to Thompson was how little Williams had changed.“He played the exact same way,” Thompson said in an interview before the start of the series. “It was incredible: same step-back jumper, same hesitations, same floaters.”Williams has stuck with the same general blueprint while refining his skills — slicker, craftier, jazzier. He has also become more resilient. There was a time, he said, when he thought his career might be finished. In 2013, he tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee while playing for the Atlanta Hawks. In his comeback, he turned to Kenny Atkinson, who was then one of the team’s assistants, to help reassemble his game.Atkinson, now the head coach of the Nets, imbued Williams with the importance of routine.“Kenny is one of my all-time favorite people in the world,” Williams said. “I give him a lot of credit for getting me back on my feet when I was down and out.”By 2015, Williams was the N.B.A.’s sixth man of the year with the Toronto Raptors. But he has never been better, more efficient or more dynamic than he has been in his last two seasons with the Clippers, all at an age — early 30s — when most players see their production begin to erode.Instead, Williams, who has scored more points off the bench than any other player in league history, has only improved. This season, he averaged 20 points and 5.4 assists in just 26.6 minutes a game. Williams also had the ball in his hands more than ever, with the Clippers running 32.4 percent of their plays through him whenever he was on the court, according to usage-rate statistics compiled by Basketball Reference.Coming off the bench was never something that he necessarily wanted to do, but Williams has no doubt that the role has helped preserve his career because it has kept his minutes down. He has averaged 24.6 minutes a game over his 14-year career. (LeBron James, by comparison, has averaged 38.6 minutes.)“It’s given me an opportunity to stretch my career out, and I think I’m in my prime right now, man,” Williams said. “I’m just rolling.”At the same time, Williams has his quirky customs, which help give him a sense of stability, starting with his game-day breakfast: hash browns, egg whites, French toast and chicken sausage along with a fruit smoothie that he sweetens with honey. He loads up because he knows he won’t eat again for a while.“I guess my body’s gotten used to it,” Williams said, who will just do the smoothie if the Clippers have an early tipoff.He also has the peculiar habit of arriving at the arena on the late side, about 90 minutes before the start of the game.“I don’t like idle time,” he said.Once there, though, Williams has an active schedule: 15 minutes in the training room getting stretched out, 10 minutes in the weight room doing exercises with a stretch band and a medicine ball, then about 17 minutes on the court making 150 field goals as Cassell feeds him passes.Before a recent home game ahead of the playoffs, Williams made nearly 80 percent of his attempts, including two skyscraping moonshots from the baseline, which is a shot that he has developed in case a 7-footer lunges at him with his arms extended. Williams says he only practices shots that he will attempt in games, however improbable or acrobatic.“I catch myself at least two or three times a game just putting my hands up, like, ‘How did that even happen?’” Shamet said.Williams wraps up his on-court work with 20 free throws and 10 court-width sprints, then retreats to the locker room to put on his ankle braces and check his phone. “Just to make sure there’s no family emergencies or anything like that,” he said.With 20 minutes on the clock, the Clippers have their team meeting. Before they head to the court, Williams gathers his teammates around him for one final huddle — or rather, they gather around him, as if he has some sort of gravitational pull.Once the game begins, Williams takes a seat on the bench — which is the only time he stops moving. But he is watching his potential defenders and studying the flow, readying himself for the moment when he sheds his warm-ups late in the first quarter.If Cassell can pinpoint one flaw, it might be that Williams commits too many turnovers. He is an excellent passer, especially coming off ball screens — Shamet considers him one of the most underrated passers in the league — but he sometimes tries to do too much, Cassell said. So Cassell will remind Williams to do what he does best: Shoot the ball. It is what everyone wants to see from Williams, who is regarded around the league as a player whom other players love to watch.“It means a lot coming from my peers,” Williams said. “I think as competitors, that’s why we get into this, to gain respect from the guys who have played the game, and you walk away and they say, ‘He was a tough cover — that dude was nice.’”All while being fueled with a hunger of his own creation.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Luke Kennard scored 27 points, Reggie Jackson had 21 and Andre Drummond added 20 points and 18 rebounds as the Detroit Pistons locked up the Eastern Conference's final playoff spot with a 115-89 victory over the New York Knicks on Wednesday night.The Pistons will face the top-seeded Milwaukee Bucks in the opening round.Jackson scored 14 points and Drummond had 10 points and seven rebounds in the first quarter as the Pistons never trailed and led by as many as 16 points. Neither Jackson nor Drummond played in the fourth quarter.Wayne Ellington added 12 points for the Pistons, who hadn't made the playoffs since the 2015-16 season, the last time they finished over .500 (44-38). Before, Detroit hadn't made the postseason since 2008-09.John Jenkins led the Knicks with 16 points, and Kadeem Allen added 13. Henry Ellenson scored 12 points, and Mitchell Robinson and Isaiah Hicks each had 11.NUGGETS 99, TIMBERWOLVES 95DENVER (AP) — Nikola Jokic had 29 points, 14 rebounds and had a key strip in the closing seconds as Denver scored the game's final 15 points and secured the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs.James Murray added 17 for the Nuggets, who are in the postseason for the first time in six years and will face seventh-seeded San Antonio.Gorgui Dieng added 18 points for the Timberwolves backups and rookie Cameron Reynolds scored a career-best 17 points, including a 3-pointer that put Minnesota ahead 95-84 with 4:01 left.TRAIL BLAZERS 136, KINGS 131PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) — Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a career-high 37 points in his first start of the season and Portland secured the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference using just six players in a win over Sacramento.The Blazers have won 14 of 17 games en route to their sixth straight trip to the playoffs. Portland will open the postseason against the Oklahoma City Thunder, who finished in sixth.Marvin Bagley III had 20 points to lead the Kings, who lost their 11th straight game in Portland.CLIPPERS 143, JAZZ 137, OTLOS ANGELES (AP) — Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead seven players in double figures and the Clippers beat Utah in overtime, snapping a three-game skid to close the regular season.Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Patrick Beverley had 14 points in his return from injury.The Clippers' losing streak had already dropped them from the sixth seed to No. 8 in the playoffs, where they'll open against the defending champion Golden State Warriors.Grayson Allen led Utah with a career-high 40 points. The rookie made 13 of 14 free throws and five 3-pointers, but was limited to four points in overtime.The Jazz earned the fifth seed and they'll play No. 4 Houston in the first round.THUNDER 127, BUCKS 116MILWAUKEE (AP) — Russell Westbrook got his 34th triple-double of the season and Oklahoma City beat Milwaukee to lock up the sixth seed in the Western Conference playoffs.Oklahoma City played without injured Paul George, but Westbrook, Jerami Grant and Dennis Schroder led a hot-shooting effort from 3-point range. Westbrook had 15 points, 17 assists and 11 rebounds. He moved into a tie with Magic Johnson for second place on the career triple-double list with 138. Schroder had 32 points, and Grant added a career-best 28.The Bucks had already clinched the No. 1 seed in the Eastern Conference and rested star Giannis Antetokounmpo and some other key players.Khris Middleton scored 21 points in 17 minutes. Tim Frazier scored a career-high 29 points and D.J. Wilson added a career-high 18 while grabbing 17 rebounds. Rookie Bonzie Colson started and scored 21 points.MAGIC 122, HORNETS 114CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) — Kemba Walker scored 43 points in what may be his final game with Charlotte, a loss to Orlando that eliminated the Hornets from playoff contention.Terrence Ross scored a season-high 35 points, Aaron Gordon added 27 and the Magic clinched the seventh seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs and will face the Toronto Raptors in the first round.Aside from Walker's sharp shooting, nothing went right for Charlotte on the final night of the regular season. The loss also means Tony Parker's string of 17 straight playoff appearances is over.NETS 113, HEAT 94NEW YORK (AP) — Dwyane Wade recorded one last triple-double before heading off to retirement, and Brooklyn headed to Philadelphia to take on the 76ers in the first round of the Eastern Conference playoffs after securing the win and the No. 6 seed.Wade had 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in his final NBA game with close friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony leading the cheers from their courtside seats.D'Angelo Russell had 21 points on seven 3-pointers for the Nets, who will face the third-seeded 76ers beginning this weekend in their first postseason appearance since 2015.SPURS 105, MAVERICKS 94SAN ANTONIO (AP) — LaMarcus Aldridge had 34 points and 16 rebounds and San Antonio beat Dallas in Dirk Nowitzki's final game.Nowitzki finished with 20 points and 10 rebounds in the finale of his storied 21-season career — all with the Mavericks.The Spurs head into the Western Conference playoffs as the No. 7 seed.DeMar Derozan finished with 19 points and Derrick White added 14 for the Spurs, who finished with a 49-34 record.GRIZZLIES 132, WARRIORS 117MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) — Jevon Carter scored a career-high 32 points, Justin Holiday added 22 and Memphis beat Golden State in the teams' regular-season finale.Kevin Durant led the Warriors with 21 points, while Klay Thompson finished with 19. Durant and Thompson, who sat out Tuesday's win at New Orleans, were the only Golden State starters to play. Both saw action only in the first half.Golden State entered the game with its playoff position set atop of the Western Conference and sat most of its stars.Carter, a rookie from West Virginia who was averaging 3.7 points, was 10 of 18 from the field and 8 of 12 from 3-point range. Memphis was helped by 21-of-46 shooting from 3-point range.Bruno Caboclo scored 21 points, and Delon Wright recorded his third triple-double in the last four games with 13 points, 11 rebounds and 11 assists.76ERS 125, BULLS 109PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points to lead Philadelphia over Chicago in the regular-season finale for both teams.In preparation for the playoffs, the 76ers rested all five starters, and star center Joel Embiid's status for the opener is in question. The third-seeded Sixers said the 7-foot center's achy left knee may prevent him from playing in the postseason opener this weekend against sixth-seeded Brooklyn.Walt Lemon Jr. scored 20 points to lead the Bulls, who were without Denzel Valentine, Wendell Carter Jr., Chandler Hutchison, Zach LaVine, Lauri Markkanen, Otto Porter Jr. and Kris Dunn.PACERS 135, HAWKS 134ATLANTA (AP) — Edmond Sumner sank three free throws with three-tenths of a second remaining, lifting playoff-bound Indiana past Atlanta.Taurean Prince's 3-pointer with 1.1 seconds remaining gave Atlanta the lead, but DeAndre Bembry's foul on Sumner's last-second 3-point attempt changed the game.TJ Leaf set career highs with 28 points and 10 rebounds for Indiana.Tyreke Evans scored 27 points and Sumner had 22 as the Pacers won despite resting most of their top scorers.Prince and Trae Young each scored 23 points for Atlanta. John Collins scored 20 points and set a career high with 25 rebounds.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Consider the following scenes from the N.B.A.’s annual bacchanal/business convention known as All-Star weekend:Spike Lee standing on a street corner waiting for the crosswalk signal. Stan Kroenke, whose family owns the Denver Nuggets, holding court in a hotel lobby. Joel Embiid, the star center of the Philadelphia 76ers, making small talk with the governor of North Carolina. An army of personal stylists waiting to be summoned by their clients for some of the flashiest events of the year.And then there were the agents and league officials and sneakerheads and reporters, some of whom traveled great distances to make unconventional requests of the weekend’s main attractions.“Shout out to my fans in Mongolia!” John Collins of the Atlanta Hawks yelled into a camera the morning before his appearance in the Saturday slam dunk contest.[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]All-Star weekend tends to be a blend of basketball and branding, business and pleasure — a showcase for a powerful league whose global influence continues to expand.“The whole weekend,” Mike Conley of the Memphis Grizzlies said, “is just a big party.”The All-Star Game itself, scheduled for Sunday night, felt secondary to just about everything else in the host city, as it has for many years. Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets, recalled waiting in line in 2006 for one of the more popular parties at All-Star weekend in Houston, where he watched Maciej Lampe — a center from Poland who appeared in 64 career games over parts of three seasons — bypass the line so that he could immediately be waved inside by security.“And I’m like, ‘Man, I’m behind Maciej Lampe?’” said Morey, who would officially join the front office of the Rockets a little more than six weeks later.All-Star weekend has only grown in recent years. One spreadsheet making the rounds in Charlotte listed more than 100 parties, and that did not include many of the more exclusive events. (Michael Jordan hosted a big one.) Thanks to a change in the league schedule, there is more partying and less deal-making than there used to be.Last year, the league moved the trade deadline up so that it preceded All-Star weekend. In the past, the deadline came a few days after the game, a sequence which helped create its share of absurdity. One of the more notorious examples came in 2017, when word leaked during the fourth quarter of the All-Star Game that the New Orleans Pelicans had struck a deal to acquire DeMarcus Cousins from the Sacramento Kings. Cousins learned of the trade during postgame interviews.The weekend vibe is different now.“It’s so much more fun,” one prominent agent said at a party that he hosted.In the corner, a disc jockey who appeared to be in his 60s spun tunes in a Hawaiian shirt and red-tinted glasses, while women wearing bright red dresses passed out hors d’oeuvres. Agents, clients and marketing honchos milled about the room.But none of this is meant to suggest that deals do not get done.On Thursday night, at a downtown hotel bar where patrons sipped $25 cocktails, a crowd of very tall men gathered as a private event wound down at a nearby steakhouse. Among the luminaries who emerged from the event: Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner; Kroenke, who also owns the Los Angeles Rams; Brian Rolapp, the N.F.L.’s chief media and business officer; Bill Simmons, the founder of The Ringer; Connor Schell, ESPN’s executive vice president for content; and Bob Myers, the general manager of the Golden State Warriors.“There are definitely conversations happening,” Morey said. “And there’s serendipity involved. You’re always bumping into people.”Morey was finishing lunch at an upscale restaurant. Warren LeGarie, a longtime agent to many coaches and executives, and Kiki Vandeweghe, the league’s executive vice president for basketball operations, were dining at nearby tables. Morey was about to head into a meeting with Vandeweghe and Monty McCutchen, who supervises the league’s referees.“Obviously, we care deeply about where the league is going,” Morey said, “so talking to Adam Silver about strategy or Monty McCutchen about changing how they might call certain things — all that kind of stuff could impact our franchise moving forward, so I try to be involved.”The atmosphere may seem more relaxed than it was two years ago, when most team executives and agents were focused on the trade deadline, but the shift in the schedule has not pushed aside the league’s most pressing issues.In Charlotte, a cloud loomed over the festivities, and it came in the shape of a unibrow.Perhaps you have heard? Anthony Davis, the star center for the Pelicans, requested a trade 10 days before the deadline.The Pelicans, though, rejected all trade offers for him and instead hope to reap better players and draft picks in a deal this summer. Last week, Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry called the drama of it all a “dumpster fire.” On Friday, the Pelicans fired their general manager. On Saturday, Davis told reporters that his list of preferred destinations included the Knicks and the Los Angeles Lakers. Hours later, Silver said he would like trade demands and discussions to remain behind closed doors.In any case, the Davis situation only underscored how much the topic of player movement dominates the league — even in the middle of the season, and even after the trade deadline. Everyone here was fixated on what could happen just over four months from now — at the start of free agency.Will Kevin Durant leave the Warriors? Will Kawhi Leonard spurn the Toronto Raptors? Will Kyrie Irving bolt from the Boston Celtics? And, again, what about Davis?“No one likes to see an instance,” Silver said, “where a player is demanding that he be traded when he’s still in the middle of a contractual obligation to a team.”Silver made those remarks, and his wish for private trade discussions, at a news conference before Saturday night’s skills, dunk and 3-point competitions.The media forum, like the carefully coordinated outfits stars wore to events around town, has become part of the event’s routine. So has the roll call of courtside A-listers during the dunk contest; this year’s included the rappers Quavo, 2 Chainz, J. Cole and Gucci Mane.All-Star weekend was not always so structured — or extravagant. Paul Westphal recalled making his first trip to an All-Star Game in 1977 as a guard for the Phoenix Suns. The league hosted a modest dinner. Players received commemorative mugs. Anyone associated with the game stayed at the same hotel in downtown Milwaukee.“It wasn’t like it is now where the game takes over the whole city,” Westphal said.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar missed practice, Westphal said, then showed up about 20 minutes before the start of the game in a fur coat. Westphal helped seal his team’s win with a late steal against Pete Maravich. It was a moment he said he would never forget.This weekend, Westphal was in Charlotte, where he was named a finalist for the Basketball Hall of Fame. He said he was not planning to attend any parties.“Just dinner with friends,” he said.In Charlotte, the streets around the host arena, Spectrum Center, were choked with traffic. Concert fliers hung from every lamppost. And none of the guests, spread among numerous hotels at premium nightly rates, seemed to mind the cold weather as countless lines formed for restaurants, bars and pop-up musical performances.Given all the extracurriculars, it was easy to forget that basketball was the only reason anyone was here in the first place — and perhaps that was because the only legitimate basketball was being played in a college gymnasium a few miles from downtown. A group of elite teenage prospects, without much fanfare, had convened for the league’s annual Basketball Without Borders Global Camp.In all, 63 boys and girls from 31 countries played in front of scouts and executives who hoped to identify the sport’s next batch of stars.“There’s a lot of talent here,” said Brooks Meek, the N.B.A.’s vice president for international basketball operations.The spotlight will find them soon enough.Kevin Draper and Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
Giannis or Harden for M.V.P.? Who makes the Warriors better: Steph or K.D.? Marc Stein considers these questions and more in the latest edition of his newsletter.Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate for this season’s Most Valuable Player Award.CreditCreditMorry Gash/Associated PressSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to get this newsletter from Marc Stein each week — for free? Sign up here.]As the 2018-19 regular season dribbles to a close, with just two nights and 22 of 1,230 games to go, voters leaguewide are finalizing their year-end award ballots in six major categories. I am no longer one of them, because The New York Times does not permit its reporters to vote for such awards, but it’s still a useful exercise as we take stock of the season to break down each race and who I would have picked.Official selections are due Friday night and there is simply no wrong answer when choosing between Antetokounmpo and Houston’s James Harden for the top spot on the five-man M.V.P. ballot.I have always approached this category by trying to identify who had the best overall season — based on a subjective and imprecise mixture of individual and team success — rather than paying attention to the noise about which player is most widely regarded as the game’s best … or the best two-way player … or any other such designation.So who had the better 2018-19 season? I would go (ever so narrowly) with Giannis. On top of all his individual superlatives, Antetokounmpo has been the face and chief culture-setter in the Bucks’ transformation from 44-win underachiever to the best team in the league (regular-season edition). And his candidacy gets bonus points on our scorecard because Milwaukee, for Eastern Conference supremacy, had to beat out a trio of worthy challengers who were all projected as superior before the season.Harden would be tremendously unlucky to finish second in M.V.P. balloting for the third time in five seasons, but I think that’s where this is headed. He is going to be the first scoring champion (36.1 points per game) to win the scoring title by more than eight points per game since Michael Jordan did over Dominique Wilkins in 1986-87. And I tend to agree with Houston Coach Mike D’Antoni’s contention that Harden is the only player capable of hauling the injury-riddled Rockets to 53 victories out of the 11-14 hole they were in. Harden simply has the misfortune of doing all that damage in a season that belonged to Antetokounmpo and the Bucks.It feels as though I have been writing and tweeting about Doncic and his Atlanta Hawks counterpart Trae Young all season. I suspect I will be writing about the two of them for the next decade-plus. And I’m fine with that.Doncic has had the start-to-finish stronger campaign and continued to look like a franchise player even though the Mavericks steadily increased his Year 1 workload after trading away four-fifths of their starting lineup in February. The trade brought in Kristaps Porzingis and better positions Dallas to build out a supporting cast tailored to their electric European import.Young has delivered even more impressive post-All-Star break production (24.9 points per game and 9.1 assists per game) for a scrappy Hawks team with a passable record of 23-29 since its dismal 6-23 start — and an increasingly bright future.Doncic is going to win the race, but Young overcame his own worrisome launch to make it a competition — and a rivalry that should have staying power — with his second-half surge.Doncic will be remembered as the only rookie in N.B.A. history not named Oscar Robertson to average at least 20 points, 7 rebounds and 5 assists. And Young can take solace in being almost as unfortunate as Harden if he doesn’t win the hardware. It’s quite a compliment when you think about it.Had the Indiana Pacers won 50 games in a season in which Victor Oladipo was healthy enough to play only 36, Nate McMillan would have the résumé to deny the Bucks’ Budenholzer. I’m not sure McMillan is miles off with 47 wins.Doc Rivers of the Los Angeles Clippers, like McMillan, is another victim of bad timing. Rivers hasn’t had a team overachieve like these starless Clippers since his rookie season on the bench with Orlando in 1999-2000 when the Magic won a wholly unexpected 41 games in a season billed as a placeholder before a splashy free-agent summer that ultimately landed Grant Hill and Tracy McGrady in the Magic Kingdom.But Milwaukee’s improvement in Budenholzer’s first season has been so dramatic that I can’t see how he doesn’t win his second Coach of the Year trophy. Perhaps some voters will try to convince themselves that the Bucks would be getting too much love if they vote for both Giannis for M.V.P. and Bud for this honor. But we’re talking about the league’s only 60-win team … and the runaway champions in average point differential for the season (+9.1) … and the only team in the league to rank in the top five in both offensive and defensive efficiency.Antetokounmpo is the biggest reason all that is possible. General Manager Jon Horst is likewise on an impressive run of roster moves. But Budenholzer’s impact has been undeniable.Honorable mentions, along with McMillan and Rivers: Denver’s Mike Malone, Brooklyn’s Kenny Atkinson, Portland’s Terry Stotts, Orlando’s Steve Clifford, Detroit’s Dwane Casey, Golden State’s Steve Kerr and, of course, San Antonio’s Gregg Popovich.Manu Ginobili, who just had his familiar No. 20 retired by the San Antonio Spurs, used to be synonymous with sixth man excellence to me. Ditto for Jamal Crawford.Yet I’d say Williams wears that crown now.The Clippers’ designated scorer won this award last season and stands as a huge favorite to join Crawford as the league’s only three-time winner — despite the challenge he’s getting from teammate Montrezl Harrell.Someone from the Clippers has to win some year-end recognition in light of the Cinderella season they’ve assembled. Williams makes the most sense over a quality field that also features Harrell, Indiana’s Domantas Sabonis, Brooklyn’s Spencer Dinwiddie, New Orleans’ Julius Randle and San Antonio’s Davis Bertans.As the self-proclaimed overseer of the All-Lefty Team, it pains me to snub both D’Angelo Russell of the Nets and Sacramento’s De’Aaron Fox in this category.But I’ve been saying for years that ultra-high former draft picks like Russell and second-year players like Fox are not going to be Most Improved candidates for me. Russell made a tremendous, inspiring leap to All-Star status in Brooklyn this season, but the wow factor partly stems from the fact that he fell so far short of expectations in his first three seasons. Fox, meanwhile, made the sort of Year 1-to-Year 2 leap Sacramento was counting on from someone it billed as a franchise cornerstone.No one expected Siakam to become an impact player at both ends and a borderline All-Star who helped the Raptors to post 57 wins amid the 22 games Kawhi Leonard missed for various reasons of injury and precaution.The nostalgic sap in me, truth be told, wanted to go with Minnesota’s resurgent Derrick Rose. But D-Rose only wound up being healthy enough to appear in 51 games — and as a former M.V.P. he’s more of a Comeback Player of the Year than a Most Improved candidate. The N.B.A.’s specific instructions in this category read as follows: “This award is designed to honor an up-and-coming player who has made a dramatic improvement from the previous season or seasons. It is not intended to be given to a player who has made a ‘comeback.’ ”Siakam, in other words, is perfect. He’s a former No. 27 overall pick who zoomed from role player to foundational player — either beside Leonard or in a post-Kawhi world should Leonard flee Canada in free agency this summer.Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate here, too, as is Oklahoma City’s Paul George and Indiana’s Myles Turner. But the Bucks, at least on this mythical ballot, will have to settle for two of the six top prizes.Three would have been too many. Especially since Utah’s Gobert remains such a dominant deterrent at the rim in his role as the anchor for a defense that officially ranks No. 2 but is essentially on par with Milwaukee’s.[Marc Stein’s newsletter will have the latest on the N.B.A. playoffs, which start Saturday. Sign up here.]You ask; I answer. Every week in this space, I’ll field three questions posed via email at marcstein-newsletter@nytimes.com. (Please include your first and last name, as well as the city you’re writing in from, and make sure the subject line reads “Corner Three.”)Q: Deandre Ayton hasn’t had a terrible rookie year, but it has paled in comparison to what we’ve seen from Luka Doncic and Trae Young. What do you think Ayton needs to improve on — and will he ever match Luka or Trae’s potential? — Henry Roth (Scottsdale, Ariz.)STEIN: It speaks to how far the Suns have faded from prominence that Ayton, as the No. 1 overall pick last June, got so little attention given the numbers he posted (16.3 points and 10.3 rebounds per game).The leaguewide fascination with Doncic and Young is also a factor, as you mentioned, but Ayton was overlooked in the extreme this season. Suns fans should be hoping that the snub helps motivate Ayton in Year 2, because consistency and sustained energy have been issues for him so far.From a technical standpoint, Ayton has to develop into more of a rim protector. With his mobility and athleticism, Phoenix should be able to build a defense around him. He’s not close to elite yet at that end.But it would also be unfair to ignore that Ayton was frequently forced to start alongside two other rookies on a squad that still doesn’t have a starter-level N.B.A. point guard.Q: Dirk Nowitzki hasn’t come out and said he is retiring, but everyone else seems to be saying it. At first I didn’t believe Adam Silver would have put Dirk in the All-Star Game if he didn’t have it on good authority that Dirk would soon retire, but could this actually not be his final year? It looks like Dirk’s ankle has finally recovered from surgery and he’s moving a lot better. Why not play one more season with Luka Doncic and Kristaps Porzingis and try to go out with a playoff berth? — Sharad AcharyaSTEIN: This much I can tell you: Dirk joining Dwyane Wade in the All-Star Game as a so-called “commissioner’s pick” has nothing to do with Nowitzki’s retirement plans. As Dirk stated before, during and after his trip to Charlotte, this was his All-Star swan song no matter what, even if he decided to play next season.I think there have been times since the All-Star break when an encouraged Nowitzki has imagined himself carrying on. He’s been a huge Porzingis fan for years and would naturally love to experience the Doncic/Porzingis tandem. But the reality is that season No. 21 has been a bigger challenge physically than he ever imagined.Is it really worth putting his body through the rigors of yet another nine-month ride? The case against coming back is much stronger than the case for it, which is why you’ve heard the likes of Mark Cuban and Steve Nash give interviews in recent days that make it sound as though the end is near.Q: I’d like to hear your thoughts on how Stephen Curry makes everyone else on the floor better and how that may not necessarily be the case with Kevin Durant? — Michael DortheimerSTEIN: Anyone who believes this must not have watched the last two N.B.A. finals.Steph is Golden State’s No. 1 playmaker and a true revolutionary when it comes to the way his seemingly limitless shooting range bends defenses.But there’s a reason Durant has won back-to-back M.V.P. trophies in the finals. He’s the best finisher in the game and was the best player on the floor on the game’s grandest stage two years in a row.The Warriors are 32-6 in the playoffs since Durant arrived. Who would dare say he doesn’t make all of the other Warriors better just by being out there?Curry has the ball in his hands more, which surely fuels the perception you describe, but Durant commands more double teams than any other Warrior and is a great passer both out of the post and in pick-and-roll situations. There is no shortage of coaches and scouts around the league who regard him as an elite playmaker.This is the fifth time in the Knicks’ 73-season history that they’ve had the league’s worst record. The first three times, there were fewer than 10 teams in the league: 1960-61 (21-58 in an eight-team league), 1962-63 (21-59 in a nine-team league) and 1964-65 (22-58 in a nine-team league). The Knicks were also at the bottom of a 23-team league in 1985-86 at 23-59. At 16-64 so far this season, the Knicks will post the lowest win total in franchise history unless they win at least one of their final two games. Utah’s Rudy Gobert is poised to finish this season with more dunks than anyone else, with 301 dunks to Antetokounmpo’s 279 for Milwaukee. Gobert, though, has played in all 80 of Utah’s games this season. Antetokounmpo has missed 12 of the Bucks’ 81 games to date. Antetokounmpo’s Bucks finished 18th in defensive rating last season. They’ve climbed 17 spots this season to rank No. 1 overall entering Tuesday’s play, allowing 104.8 points per 100 possessions. Jason Terry’s 590 regular-season games alongside Dirk are the most of any teammate in Nowitzki’s 21 seasons in Dallas. J.J. Barea ranks second (and No. 1 among active Mavericks) with 543 regular-season games. The Mavericks say Nowitzki has had 197 teammates.This is the 39th consecutive season, according to the peerless data maintained by Basketball-Reference.com, during which the average height of N.B.A. players is 6-foot-7. The last season that featured a different figure was 1979-80, when the average height of N.B.A. players was 6-foot-6.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressJaylen Brown scored 23 points and Kyrie Irving added 19 to help the Boston Celtics beat the host Indiana Pacers, 104-96, on Friday night for a 3-0 lead in the first-round Eastern Conference series.Irving also had 10 assists and 5 rebounds, and Jayson Tatum had 18 points and 7 rebounds for the Celtics, who can eliminate the Pacers on Sunday in Indianapolis.“We’re all making sure we’re giving each other confidence and doing the little things to ensure we win,” Irving said. “When you have that type of camaraderie, executing is a lot easier. Now that the stakes are higher, we’re settling into who we want to be.”Tyreke Evans matched his career playoff high with 19 points for Indiana, and Bojan Bogdanovic had 15, not enough to prevent the Pacers from losing their sixth straight to Boston in the regular season and the playoffs.The Celtics’ defense again turned the game, allowing just 12 points in the third quarter, as they put the Pacers on the brink of their second series sweep in three years.Indiana had erased a 15-point first half deficit to take a 61-59 halftime lead, and Myles Turner opened the third with a 3-pointer for the Pacers. But Boston charged back with 8 straight points to retake the lead and closed the quarter with a 9-2 run to make it 80-73.Boston gave up 8 points in the third quarter of Game 1 and 12 in the fourth quarter of Game 2.RAPTORS 98, MAGIC 83 Pascal Siakam had 30 points and 11 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard added 16 points, and Toronto held off host Orlando to take a 2-1 lead in their Eastern Conference first-round series.Siakam was 13 for 20 from the field, and the Raptors held Orlando to 36 percent shooting. Terrence Ross led Orlando with 24 points, and Nikola Vucevic shook off a slow start to finish with 22 points and 14 rebounds.Game 4 is Sunday night in Orlando.The Raptors trailed, 61-60, midway through the third quarter before going on a 16-0 run over the next four minutes to take the lead for good.Kyle Lowry’s 3-pointer with 7 minutes 48 seconds left gave Toronto its biggest lead, 86-69. The Magic rallied, and Ross’s 3-pointer with 41 seconds left cut the deficit to 96-93.Leonard was short with a jumper on the next possession, but the Magic could not control the rebound. Leonard made two free throws with 12.9 seconds remaining to make it a two-possession game again, and that closed the scoring.Orlando, which finished the regular season by winning 13 of its final 14 home games, was 13 of 44 from 3-point range.THUNDER 120, TRAIL BLAZERS 108 Russell Westbrook had 33 points and 11 assists and Oklahoma City won at home against Portland to cut its Western Conference series deficit to 2-1.Paul George added 22 points, Jerami Grant had 18 and Dennis Schroder 17 for the Thunder, who will host Game 4 on Sunday night.Damian Lillard scored 32 points for the Trail Blazers, but he had just 3 in the fourth quarter after scoring 25 in the third. C.J. McCollum had 21 points, and Enes Kanter added 19.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressThe Nets were all business on Sunday. They started fast. They closed hard. And they refused to let anything, even a frequent nemesis, block their playoff path.Instead, the Nets beat Indiana at its own physical game and earned their first playoff berth in four years with a 108-96 victory on the road — though the muted locker room celebration made it hard to tell if players were more relieved or excited that the drought was over.“It means a lot, obviously to exceed expectations for a lot of us in here, to see how far we’ve come,” Joe Harris said after scoring 18 of his 19 points in the decisive first half. “It means a ton. Hopefully, it’s a sign of things to come for this organization.”After starting the season 8-18, the Nets (41-40) fought back to clinch their first nonlosing record in four years and can make it a winning season by beating Miami in Wednesday’s regular-season finale. They have the same record as Orlando; the Nets will finish sixth and the Magic seventh with a win or an Orlando loss. The Nets will be no worse than seventh.“There was another level of focus, another level of being locked in,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “They wanted it so bad, there was an extra energy there in these past few games.”The Nets, who got 20 points from D’Angelo Russell and 18 from Caris LeVert, ended a nine-game losing streak against the Pacers and a seven-game losing streak in Indianapolis that dated to March 2015.Domantas Sabonis had 17 points and 12 rebounds for Indiana, which has lost two straight at home and five of seven over all, locking the Pacers into the No. 5 seed in the East.“They were playing for something and they went out and showed it,” the Pacers’ Myles Turner said of the Nets.KNICKS 113, WIZARDS 110 Mario Hezonja scored a career-high 30 points and made the go-ahead 3-pointer with 44 seconds left, and the Knicks beat Washington at Madison Square Garden for the first time in nine games over six years.Luke Kornet added 17 points and Kevin Knox had 16 for the Knicks (16-64), who would have tied the franchise record for losses had they not rallied from a 10-point deficit after three quarters.“There’s no quitters in this locker room, in this organization, and we’re just showing we have a great chemistry going around and it resulted in a win,” Hezonja said. “So we’re not paying attention to standings or whatever it is. We just treat it as a development year and hopefully it results in something big next year.”The Knicks have to win their last two games to avoid at least matching their 17-65 record under Derek Fisher in 2014-15.HORNETS 104, PISTONS 91 Kemba Walker scored 20 of his 31 points in the first half to help Charlotte win at Detroit.The Hornets won their third in a row to keep their East playoff hopes alive. Charlotte and Miami are tied for ninth, a game behind Detroit. All three teams have two games left.RAPTORS 117, HEAT 109 Pascal Siakam had 23 points and 10 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard scored 22 points, and host Toronto won in overtime, further denting Miami’s fading playoff hopes.MAGIC 116, CELTICS 108 Terrence Ross had 26 points, Nikola Vucevic added 25 points and 12 rebounds, and Orlando rallied at Boston to clinch its first playoff berth in seven years.WARRIORS 131, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 27 points as Golden State clinched the Western Conference’s top seed, beating Los Angeles in the Warriors’ final regular-season game at Oracle Arena.3-POINTER RECORD James Harden scored 30 points in just three quarters as the Houston Rockets broke their N.B.A. record by making 27 3-pointers in a 149-113 home win against Phoenix. Eric Gordon led the way with eight 3-pointers, and Harden had five.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressD’Angelo Russell flashed some postseason magic, playing like the All-Star leader the Nets needed with 26 points, and Caris LeVert scored 23, leading the visiting Nets to a 111-102 victory on Saturday over the Philadelphia 76ers in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.Jimmy Butler scored 36 points and saved the third-seeded Sixers, favored by many to at least reach the East semifinals, from losing by 25. Joel Embiid slogged his way through 24 minutes on a troubled left knee that cost him much of the final month of the regular season and managed 22 points and 15 rebounds. Ben Simmons came up small against Russell, his high school teammate, who scored 19 second-half points.Russell, LeVert and Spencer Dinwiddie gave the Sixers fits off the dribble and buried open looks from 3-point range, and a team that got hot late and just made the playoffs suddenly has the upper hand on the road over a 51-win team stocked with stars.“I think earlier in the season, especially when we were struggling, we’d lose games like that,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said.With Philadelphia behind by 16 late in the fourth quarter, Amir Johnson was caught by television cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone. Johnson, who was inactive for the game, showed Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid the device into a pocket of his warm-up pants.“I just looked down because he said his daughter was extremely sick and he was checking on her,” Embiid said.Johnson issued an apology after the game, and the Sixers fined him an unspecified amount. It was a fitting episode in a game that the Sixers seemed to have phoned in.Russell hit a string of jumpers in the third quarter, never letting the Sixers seriously chip away at the lead. LeVert’s third 3-pointer in the fourth made it a 16-point game, and there was no looking back for one of the biggest wins since the sixth-seeded Nets moved to Brooklyn.Dinwiddie and DeMarre Carroll made consecutive 3-pointers during a 12-0 first-half run. LeVert hit two straight 3s for a 14-point lead, and the Sixers were soundly booed off the court.“We all got to do a better job,” Embiid said. “Us. The fans. We have to bring the fun.”WARRIORS 121, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 38 points and made eight 3-pointers, reaching the highest total in postseason history, and top-seeded Golden State began its quest for a three-peat by winning at home against Los Angeles on a night when tempers flared.Kevin Durant and Patrick Beverley were ejected with 4 minutes 41 seconds to go, 19 seconds after they received double technicals when Durant stripped Beverley and the Clippers guard fell into the scorer’s table.They both became enraged again, and the official Ed Malloy immediately sent them both to the locker room. Durant high-fived fans as he left.Curry was 8 for 12 from beyond the arc, passing Ray Allen (385) for career postseason 3-pointers with 386.MAGIC 104, RAPTORS 101 D. J. Augustin scored 25 points, including the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 3.5 seconds left, and seventh-seeded Orlando won at second-seeded Toronto in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round series.Kawhi Leonard, who led the Raptors with 25 points, got a final shot but missed the rim with his 3-point attempt from the top. The Raptors are now 2-14 in playoff series openers.WALTON TO COACH KINGS One day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers, Luke Walton reached an agreement on a four-year deal to coach the Sacramento Kings, according to a person familiar with the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Lakers’ president this week in part because he did not want to go through with firing Walton, as had been expected around the N.B.A. for weeks. On Friday, Walton and the Lakers mutually agreed to part ways with two seasons left on his contract — with Walton knowing that the Kings, after firing Coach Dave Joerger on Thursday, were eager to hire him.The Lakers have the former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and the Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams at their top of their list to succeed Walton. Lue coached the Lakers’ LeBron James for two and a half seasons in Cleveland.(MARC STEIN)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAt the end of a dizzying frenzy of trades in the N.B.A., featuring 24 deals in one week, Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans stayed put — for now.Yet there was plenty of action to make up for the lack of a Davis trade, with two of the four title hopefuls in the Eastern Conference making significant acquisitions before Thursday afternoon’s trade deadline, intensifying the race at the top of the East after Philadelphia’s big trade earlier this week.In the most significant deadline-day deals, Toronto acquired the former All-Star center Marc Gasol from Memphis, while Milwaukee imported the sharpshooting forward Nikola Mirotic from New Orleans as part of a three-team deal that also involved Detroit.Those moves capped a wild seven-day stretch that began with the Knicks’ blockbuster trade of Kristaps Porzingis to Dallas and also included the 76ers’ acquisition of Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers. Philadelphia’s big swing to land Harris, who joined a starting lineup that already featured Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Jimmy Butler and JJ Redick, seemingly forced the Raptors and Bucks, who entered Thursday as the East’s second- and first-place teams, to make their own moves.Milwaukee, Toronto and Philadelphia, along with the Boston Celtics, are jockeying to become the first LeBron James-less team to represent the East in the N.B.A. Finals since 2010.The Sixers, at fifth in the conference standings, didn’t stop at their Harris trade, though. Shortly before the deadline, they made a surprising deal with the Orlando Magic to send the wayward guard Markelle Fultz — whom they selected with the No. 1 overall pick in the 2017 draft — for the small forward Jonathon Simmons and two future draft picks (one in the first round, one in the second).The Celtics, who entered Thursday in third, came away from trade season simply relieved that Davis had not been traded to the Los Angeles Lakers. After a nervy two weeks, during which the Celtics could merely watch because of an obscure league rule, they will now get an opportunity to make a run at Davis in the off-season — although Davis is said to remain adamantly against signing a long-term contract with the Celtics should they trade for him.The Celtics were ineligible to make in-season trade offers for Davis with Kyrie Irving still on their roster, since both Davis and Irving are currently playing under maximum rookie-scale contract extensions; league rules allow teams to field only one such player.The Lakers, however, were unable to persuade the Pelicans to surrender Davis during the exclusive negotiating window they had to pursue him in the wake of Davis’s Jan. 28 request to be traded. The front offices of Los Angeles and New Orleans had no discussions about Davis on deadline day, according to two people familiar with the talks, after negotiations broke down Tuesday over what the Lakers deemed to be exorbitant demands from New Orleans.Late Thursday, Pelicans General Manager Dell Demps confirmed that Davis would continue playing for the team rather than be held out to guard against serious injury in advance of the trade sweepstakes that will likely emerge closer to the draft. Davis had not played since Jan. 18 because of a finger injury followed by the team not wanting to risk an injury. Demps confirmed he would be back on the court soon.“Ultimately, Anthony made it clear to us he wants to play and he gives our team the best opportunity to win games,” Demps said in a statement.The Lakers on Thursday were left trying to recover from the instability wrought by their pursuit of Davis as they seek to make the playoffs in James’s first season in Los Angeles. They entered Thursday’s play at 27-27, good for just 10th place in the West, after falling to a humiliating 42-point defeat in Indiana on Tuesday night. The one-sided loss, against the Victor Oladipo-less Pacers, left little doubt that the mounting trade speculation surrounding the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma was taking a toll on the Lakers.When the Lakers couldn’t acquire Davis on Thursday, they did trade the Croatian center Ivica Zubac — who was among the promising young players mentioned as potential parts of a trade for Davis — along with Michael Beasley to the Los Angeles Clippers in a deal for forward Mike Muscala. The move opened a roster spot for the Lakers that will allow them to seriously consider signing the former All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony, but Los Angeles will have plenty of other options on the free-agent market as various veterans become available following the deadline.As the Davis talk cooled on Thursday, much of the focus leading into the deadline centered on the Grizzlies, who wound up trading Gasol but keeping their point guard Mike Conley, who had drawn serious trade interest from the Utah Jazz and Detroit Pistons.Conley, 31, has two seasons, with a combined salary of $66 million, left on his contract after this one, which convinced the Grizzlies that trading him closer to the draft in June might yield a better offer. Gasol, though, can become a free agent at season’s end, so Memphis had to trade him now or risk losing one of the game’s best two-way players without compensation this summer.Charlotte and Memphis engaged in serious trade talks regarding Gasol earlier this week, which prompted the Spaniard, who has only played for the Grizzlies — and who played his high school ball in Memphis after the Grizzlies imported his brother Pau Gasol from Spain — to clean out his locker.But Toronto, perhaps motivated by what the Sixers did and by the Bucks’ move for Mirotic, packaged Jonas Valanciunas, Delon Wright, C.J. Miles and a second-round draft pick in 2024 to add Gasol to a team straining to convince the All-Star forward Kawhi Leonard to make a long-term commitment when he becomes a free agent July 1.The Bucks, like Toronto, managed to upgrade their roster without surrendering a first-round pick. By expanding a Thon Maker-for-Stanley Johnson trade it had hashed out earlier this week into a three-team deal, Milwaukee landed Mirotic for the primary cost of four second-round draft picks, which were sent to the Pelicans, who also came away with Johnson and the veteran Jason Smith.The Knicks did not make another deal, one week removed from the Porzingis blockbuster that got the trade madness started, but they did set two veterans free to find deals on the postseason market. The outspoken forward Enes Kanter was waived, as was the newly acquired Wes Matthews — with Matthews immediately coming to terms with Indiana to join the Pacers after he clears waivers.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — The New York Knicks are turning to Patrick Ewing in hopes of lottery luck.Ewing, the prize when the Knicks won the first NBA draft lottery in 1985, will represent the team on stage when it attempts a turnaround by landing the No. 1 pick on May 14 in Chicago.The Knicks announced Saturday that the Georgetown coach would fill the role Dave DeBusschere had when the Knicks selected Ewing. He went on to a Hall of Fame career with the Knicks, who have been one of the NBA's least successful teams since he retired.They had the NBA's worst record this season at 17-65, matching the worst in franchise history, and have a 14% chance of winning the lottery.Knicks President Steve Mills says "we're proud to have one of the all-time Knicks greats sit on the dais on behalf of the team, the city and the fans."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPHOENIX — John MacLeod, the longtime NBA coach who led the Phoenix Suns to the 1976 NBA Finals, has died. He was 81.MacLeod's son, Matt, confirmed his father's death Sunday to The Associated Press. The elder MacLeod fought Alzheimer's disease for more than a decade.MacLeod is the winningest coach in Suns history, going 579-543 in the regular season from 1973-87. He also coached the Dallas Mavericks from 1987-89 and the New York Knicks in 1990-91, finishing his 18-year head coaching career with a 707-657 mark.MacLeod had his most success in Phoenix, capped by the 1975-76 "Sundarella Suns" run to the NBA Finals. The Suns lost to Boston in six games in the finals, with the Celtics' triple-overtime victory in Game 5 at Boston Garden regarded as one of the greatest games ever."His passion for the game was matched only by his endearing personality, humility and class, a man who was loved by everyone that had the pleasure of interacting with him," the Suns said in a statement. "Coach MacLeod was a winner in every sense and will be dearly missed by our entire Phoenix Suns family."His Phoenix teams made nine playoff appearances, also reaching the Western Conference finals in 1979 and 1984. He had a franchise- record 37 playoff victories, and was placed in the Phoenix Suns Ring of Honor in 2012.MacLeod also worked as an assistant with Phoenix, Denver and Golden State, ending his coaching career with the Warriors in 2006. He was a college head coach at Oklahoma from 1967-73 and Notre Dame from 1991-99, with son Matt a member of the Fighting Irish squad in his father's last two seasons. MacLeod starred at Providence High School in Clarksville, Indiana, and in college at Bellarmine.MacLeod also is survived by wife Carol and daughter Kathleen.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Tech standout Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, announced Thursday he will forgo his last two seasons in Lubbock and declare for the 2019 NBA Draft.The 6-foot-5, 195-pound guard made the announcement during a press conference in Lubbock, Texas.Culver helped lead the Red Raiders to a share of the Big 12 regular-season title and was effective in this year's NCAA Tournament, where Texas Tech fell to Virginia 85-77 in overtime in the national championship game.On the season, Culver averaged 18.5 points, 6.4 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game while the Red Raiders set a school record with 31 wins.--Also announcing his plans to declare for the draft was 18-year-old Russian Nikita Mikhailovskii, according to a report by ESPN.The 6-foot-8, 180-pound wing is trying to become the first Russian player drafted since 2013 when Sergey Karasev was chosen with the 19th pick by the Cleveland Cavaliers.Mikhailovskii spent the past season playing in the mostly Russian VTB United League and FIBA Europe Cup, averaging 7.8 points in 16.8 minutes while shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range in 45 games.--The Memphis Grizzlies hired two former general managers to their front office, adding Rich Cho as vice president of strategy and Glen Grunwald as senior adviser.Cho is a former GM of the Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers, and Grunwald was GM of the New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors.The Grizzlies demoted former GM Chris Wallace to a scouting role in a flurry of moves last week, including the firing of head coach J.B. Bickerstaff and the promotion of Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations.--Los Angeles Clippers assistant general manager Trent Redden reportedly is close to interviewing for a senior front-office role with the New Orleans Pelicans.The Clippers gave the Pelicans permission to discuss the position with Redden, ESPN reported, citing league sources.David Griffin, the Pelicans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, worked closely with Redden when they with the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 2016 NBA championship season. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski noted that Griffin is expected to be "aggressive" in pursuing Redden.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDURHAM, N.C. — Zion Williamson is leaving Duke after one high-flying season to enter the NBA draft.Widely projected as the top overall pick in the June draft, the AP national player of the year announced his decision Monday.The 6-foot-7, 285-pound Williamson captivated all of college basketball with his freakish, once-in-a-generation athleticism, his energy at both ends of the floor and his omnipresent charisma.The Atlantic Coast Conference player and rookie of the year averaged 22.6 points — tied for the league lead with teammate RJ Barrett — and 8.9 rebounds. Along the way, he became the face of college basketball this season, routinely coming up with at least one highlight-reel play or show-stopping dunk per game.His decision to turn pro came as no surprise. In fact, he spent the season greeting NBA chatter with a playful wink and a knowing nod.He said it would be "dope" to play on a hypothetical New York Knicks team with Kyrie Irving and Kevin Durant. Upon learning that LeBron James and Stephen Curry were talking about him during All-Star weekend, he responded that he's "hoping to be there competing against them next year."During his lone college season, he helped the Blue Devils earn the No. 1 ranking in the final AP Top 25 and the top overall seed in the NCAA Tournament. Duke was knocked out by Michigan State in the East Regional final.Now that he's headed to the NBA, one key subplot to follow is which sneaker company will land his endorsement.In one of the signature moments of the season, Williamson blew out his left Nike shoe — the PG 2.5, the signature shoe of Oklahoma City star Paul George — and sprained his right knee in the opening minute of what became a lopsided home loss to rival North Carolina.The impact was immediate — Nike's stock price took a hit the next day, and the shoe company sent a team of representatives to campus to investigate. When Williamson returned roughly three weeks later for the ACC Tournament, he wore a pair of modified size-15 Nikes from the signature line of Irving, a Boston Celtics All-Star and former one-and-done player at Duke.Williamson joins Cam Reddish and Barrett as classmates headed to the pros after one season. Point guard Tre Jones says he will return to school for his sophomore year.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersJayson Tatum buried a go-ahead 3-pointer with 50.8 seconds remaining Wednesday night, allowing the host Boston Celtics to overcome a late Indiana Pacers flurry and pull out a 99-91 victory in Game 2 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.With the fourth-seeded Celtics having successfully held serve on their home court to go up 2-0 in the best-of-seven set, the fifth-seeded Pacers will host Games 3 and 4 on Friday night and Sunday afternoon.Indiana blew a 12-point, fourth-quarter lead. However, the Pacers appeared primed to even the series when Wesley Matthews and Bojan Bogdanovic combined for three 3-pointers in a 70-second spurt, allowing Indiana to retake a 91-89 advantage with 2:16 to go.But the Pacers didn't score again, and the Celtics finally did when Tatum drilled his third 3-pointer of the game for a one-point lead in the final minute. The Celtics scored the game's final 10 points.Rockets 118, Jazz 98James Harden posted his third career postseason triple-double, and Houston recorded another rout of visiting Utah in Game 2 of a Western Conference first-round series.Harden totaled 32 points, 13 rebounds and 10 assists in the wire-to-wire victory. After Utah utilized an unorthodox defensive approach against Harden in the series opener, Harden exploded for 25 first-half points Wednesday on 8-of-15 shooting, including 5-of-9 accuracy on 3-point attempts.He finished 11 of 24 from the floor, 6 of 13 from long distance. Harden, however, did commit a game-high eight turnovers. The Rockets will take a 2-0 series lead to Salt Lake City for Game 3 on Saturday.Bucks 120, Pistons 99Giannis Antetokounmpo sparked the decisive run in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference first-round series, scoring Milwaukee's first seven points of the second half in a win over visiting Detroit.The top-seeded Bucks lead the best-of-seven series two games to none. Game 3 is scheduled for Saturday in Detroit, where the eighth-seeded Pistons will try to snap a 12-game postseason losing streak that dates back to 2008. That's tied for the second-longest postseason losing streak in NBA history, behind only the New York Knicks' 13 consecutive losses from 2001-12.Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points during a third quarter in which the Bucks outscored the Pistons 35-17. He also grabbed a team-high 12 rebounds.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.He secured his season high in points with a straightaway 3-pointer, his fifth of the game, early in the third quarter for 22 points. That was followed by a rare slam dunk that elicited howls from the crowd and a big smile across Nowitzki's face.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history then drained another jumper for 26 points and an 80-49 Dallas lead. He re-entered the game with three minutes left and hit two more buckets to go 11 of 31 from the floor. He finished with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 32 minutes.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points -- one off his career best -- with 26 coming in the fourth quarter, to get the Suns as close as 105-100 with 4:20 to play.Crawford, 39, became the oldest player ever to score 50-plus points in an NBA game. The old mark was held by Michael Jordan, who was 38 when he scored 51 for the Washington Wizards on Dec. 29, 2001, against the Charlotte Hornets.According to ESPN, Crawford also became the first player to score 50 points for four different franchises (Chicago Bulls, New York Knicks, Golden State Warriors and now Phoenix).The Suns closed out a miserable season, finishing 19-63.A longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery kept Nowitzki out until mid-December. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career, and averaged 6.6 points in less than 15 minutes a game before Tuesday.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted "M-V-P! M-V-P!" Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2006-07 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.The future of the Mavs (33-48), rookie Luka Doncic, also didn't disappoint, notching his eighth triple-double with 21 points, 11 assists and 16 rebounds. He moved into sole possession of third place for most triple-doubles by a rookie.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherJames L. Dolan, the owner of the Knicks, took exception to a fan at Madison Square Garden who suggested that he sell the team. Dolan’s response: threatening to bar the fan from future games.In a video released by TMZ, Dolan is seen leaving the courtside area late in the Knicks’ loss to the Sacramento Kings on Saturday. A fan yells from off camera, “Sell the team.”Dolan stops quickly and responds, “You think I should sell the team?” and beckons the fan to come nearer. “You want to not come to any more games?”“Why?” the fan asks.“That’s rude,” Dolan says.“It’s an opinion,” the fan contends.“No, it’s not an opinion, and you know what? Enjoy watching them on TV,” Dolan says. He walks away and seems to signal with his eyes to guards, and then some assistants call out, “Hold him,” apparently in reference to the fan.It was not clear if any fan was actually banned. The Madison Square Garden company said in a statement, “Our policy is and will continue to be that if you are disrespectful to anyone in our venues, we will ask you not to return.”The Knicks have had a lot of bad seasons recently — five years without a playoff appearance. But this season has been particularly ugly, with the team, at 13-54, possessing the worst record in the league. A rare Knicks victory on the night of the Academy Awards was so noteworthy that Samuel L. Jackson publicly alerted the Knicks superfan Spike Lee, seated in the audience, about it.The team has occasionally seemed to lash out at criticism. At the end of December, the Knicks invited reporters to a news conference with Steve Mills, the team president, but the team failed to notify The Daily News, presumably because of its coverage of the team’s dismal season. A Daily News back page had encouraged Dolan to sell the team. The headline read: “DO IT! According to a report, James Dolan, who’s sick of being berated by fans, won’t rule out selling Knicks … or Rangers.”Last year he also struck back at the radio station WFAN after a host, Maggie Gray, sharply criticized him. In response, he barred his employees from doing any business with WFAN and other stations run by its parent company, Entercom.Dolan has also had several run-ins in and around the Garden. Two seasons ago, he got into a verbal altercation with a fan outside the arena, a dispute that also began with a recommendation that he sell the team.Charles Oakley, a beloved former star, was handcuffed and ejected from the Garden the same season. Oakley, who had been critical of Dolan, said security guards asked him why he was sitting near Dolan. The team claimed Oakley had acted abusively, and Dolan said on a radio show, without providing evidence, that Oakley might have had an alcohol problem.As a result of the team’s struggles, and his own missteps, Dolan is a frequent target of disdain from Knicks fans, and a good percentage of them might agree with the anonymous fan on the TMZ video imploring him to sell. Many fans gave up on 2018-19 long ago and instead are looking ahead to next season, with the hope that the team will land the No. 1 draft pick or perhaps sign a marquee free agent or two. But for now, no change at the top of the Knicks is on the horizon.Kelly Whiteside contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherThe Knicks will not be going to the N.B.A. playoffs.If this doesn’t feel like hot-off-the-presses news, it shouldn’t. You may have checked the standings earlier in the season and seen that the Knicks were 4-10, or 8-20, or 10-40.With Monday night’s 115-108 loss to the Kings in Sacramento, the Knicks fell to a record of 13-51, the worst in the league. Yes, even worse than the Bulls, the Cavaliers and (shudder) the Suns. The loss also officially eliminated them from a playoff race they were unofficially eliminated from months ago.The loss, to a team that will probably also miss the playoffs, was hardly mitigated by a good scoring effort by the rookie shooting guard Allonzo Trier, who had 29 points.The Knicks are last in the league in shooting percentage and last in assists. So, in short, they can’t pass and they can’t shoot. Basketball Reference reports that they are particularly bad at the easiest type of shot, shooting only .603 from three feet or closer and .348 from three to 10 feet, both worst in the league.The rookie center Mitchell Robinson is fifth in the league in blocks and third in blocks per game. That’s good. But no other Knick is in the top five in anything. That’s not good.When you don’t have a lot of wins, you wind up with some losing streaks. It’s just math. The Knicks came into the new year with an eight-game, a six-game and a couple of five-game skids, as one might expect. More unexpected: In January and February, the Knicks lost 18 in a row.On the plus side, the Knicks have put together two winning streaks. One was two games and the other was three.The Knicks have now missed the playoffs for six straight years, just short of the franchise record. From 1960 to 1966, the Knicks missed the playoffs seven straight times. But those Knicks teams always won at least 21 games in that span. This season, the Knicks are on a pace to win 16 or 17 games, giving them a chance to break the franchise-worst record of 17 in the abysmal 2014-15 season.Knicks fans, desperate for a light at the end of the 82-game tunnel, are already focusing on the coming draft lottery, right Spike Lee? Zion Williamson, Duke’s dominant center, is the big prize. Adding Williamson and a couple of free agents lured by the bright lights of New York may finally bring the postseason back to Madison Square Garden.Unfortunately for the Knicks, the rules have been changed some this year, and having the very worst record does not offer any advantage. The three worst teams, one of whom is virtually certain to be the Knicks, all will have an identical 14 percent chance of landing the top pick. If the Knicks really are tanking to get a lower lottery spot, they can probably stop now.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreThe Knicks rookie is blocking shots at a rate unseen since the days of Manute Bol. On a bad team, he’s a reason to keep watching.By Benjamin HoffmanBack in November, Mitchell Robinson showed the world what he’s capable of.Robinson, the rookie Knicks center, absorbed contact under the basket from Orlando’s Melvin Frazier and flopped to the court, hoping for a foul that was never called. Instead, the Magic passed the ball around a few times, finding a wide-open Jerian Grant in the corner, 22 feet from a supine Robinson.In three seconds that defied reasonable expectation, Robinson got to his feet, raced toward the corner and leapt into the air. He fully extended his lanky 7-foot-1 frame and swatted the 3-point attempt out of midair so matter-of-factly that Grant pulled his hands toward his body, looking almost sorry that he had attempted the shot.The block was Robinson’s eighth of the game, setting a Knicks rookie record (which he stretched to nine blocks by the end of the night). But beyond the block’s impact in the moment, the play illustrated the 20-year-old’s approach to this season. The perception may be that the Knicks are tanking in hopes of drafting Duke’s Zion Williamson, but for Robinson, any shot an opponent takes is a chance for him to get a block — and he is not going to be cheated out of any of them, even if the shooter is beyond the 3-point line. As a result, a mostly irrelevant team has become must-watch television.Last time we met the Magic @thegarden, @23savage____ set the Knicks rookie record for blocks ✋ Another block party tonight? 👀 pic.twitter.com/3RgRQoROecThe Knicks had not forgotten that November block when the Magic came back to Madison Square Garden on Tuesday. The team posted a video of the play on Twitter, wondering if history would repeat. The post proved prophetic, as Robinson led the way in a 108-103 victory for the Knicks with 17 points, 14 rebounds, 6 blocks and 3 steals in 33 minutes off the bench. Four of the blocks came in just 40 seconds in the second quarter.“The kid is making history right now,” Knicks Coach David Fizdale said of Robinson after the win. “He’s putting himself in groups with historic names. Every single day he continues to grow and get better.”The Knicks’ two-game winning streak ended on Thursday with a disappointing 125-118 loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers. But even in defeat, Robinson managed to add to his highlight reel, this time with a shot an opponent didn’t take. It was early in the second quarter, and Cavaliers guard Matthew Dellavedova got the ball with a clean look at the basket from 3-point range. As he prepared to shoot, he noticed Robinson a few feet in front of him, with the rookie lowering his shoulder slightly as he prepared to leap. Dellavedova immediately thought better of trying his luck and passed the ball instead. A few seconds later on the same possession, Robinson got his block anyway, swatting away a layup attempt from Marquese Chriss.A rare prep-to-pro N.B.A. player as a result of his complicated withdrawal from Western Kentucky University, Robinson has been limited to 18.6 minutes a game as he works to refine his game, but he is still third in the N.B.A. at 2.3 blocks a game. When rated by block percentage, which estimates the percentage of an opponents’ shots a player blocks in his time on the floor, Robinson is nothing short of stunning, at 10.4 percent.Basketball Reference has tracked block percentage back to the 1973-74 season, and the top-four seasons among players with 100 or more blocks belong to Manute Bol, the 7-foot-7 shot-blocking savant. No. 5 on the list belongs to Robinson. Sample size obviously needs to be considered, but Robinson stands a chance of being the only qualified player beyond Bol and Alonzo Mourning to finish a season with a block percentage higher than 10. Rim protection luminaries such as Serge Ibaka (9.8), Mark Eaton (9.2) and Dikembe Mutombo (8.8) all fell short of that mark in their best seasons. Robinson, who has quickly become a fan favorite, believes he is just getting started. He was asked recently how many shots he could block a game if the team let him play 30 minutes a night. “Probably around six,” he said. “I feel like I can get like six.”The N.B.A. season record for blocks per game is 5.6, set by Eaton in 1984-85, yet Robinson’s boast does not seem all that far-fetched, largely because of his unusual ability to block shots along the perimeter as well as under the basket.“His potential is crazy,” Emmanuel Mudiay, the Knicks guard, told reporters before Thursday’s game. “He’s probably the best shot-blocker I ever played with in my life. In my opinion, he’s the best shot-blocker in the league.”Fizdale has said that Robinson’s confidence and execution have improved since the team acquired DeAndre Jordan to serve as his mentor. The numbers back that up, as Robinson has averaged 11 points, 8.7 rebounds and 3.2 blocks a game since Jordan’s arrival on Jan. 31, while still averaging only 23.1 minutes a night. He has also continued to pester outside shooters, with eight of his 35 blocks in February coming on 3-point attempts. Fizdale was asked recently if Robinson compared to any other players he had coached. The coach, who has worked with excellent rim protectors like Marc Gasol, Jermaine O’Neal and Chris Andersen, spoke about his rookie like a proud father.“No,” he said. “He’s a different guy, and he’s got so much more room to grow. I’m going to keep my foot way up his butt to make sure he does.”That could be terrible news for anyone looking to get a shot off against the Knicks in the coming years. They might find there is no place to hide.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAnd the Oscar goes to … the Knicks?Not quite. But the team — and its woeful state as one of the worst teams in the N.B.A. — did get a shout out during the Academy Awards on Sunday night.When Samuel L. Jackson came out with Brie Larson to present the Best Adapted Screenplay award at the Oscars, he had a short preamble, a personal message to Spike Lee, a nominee and a famously devoted Knicks fan through thick and thin.“First of all, Spike, so glad you’re sitting down,” Jackson began. “After 18 consecutive home losses, the Knicks won tonight. I repeat, the Knicks won tonight, defeated San Antonio, 130-118”Jackson’s stats were accurate. The 18-game home losing streak had set a franchise record.Jackson’s news flash drew a laugh from Lee, and also an exclamation. It was not audible on the broadcast, but just about every armchair lip reader believed he said, “We’re trying to tank.”While you might think that the end of a long losing streak would delight a superfan like Lee, there are those Knicks supporters out there who don’t especially want to win many — or any — more games.If the Knicks finish in the bottom three of the N.B.A., they will get the best possible chance, 14 percent, to land the top draft pick in June. A recent injury aside, that is still expected to be the Duke star Zion Williamson. A bottom three finish would also give the Knicks a 40 percent chance at a top three pick.As of Monday morning, the Knicks stand at 12-48, for the second worst record. Despite their win, they look likely to grab a bottom three spot, probably alongside the Phoenix Suns (11-50) and Cleveland Cavaliers (14-46). But the Chicago Bulls are looming, two games “better” than the Cavs.The league actually changed the draft lottery percentages this season in an effort to cut down on tanking, particularly after the 76ers went on a multiyear losing period of terrible play that got them several top picks. A year ago, the worst record offered a full 25 percent chance at No. 1, with the second and third worst teams getting 20 and 16 percent chances.Lee has been the Knicks’ consensus No. 1 fan for years, sitting courtside and not infrequently interacting with players on both teams. Perhaps most infamously, in 1994, he jawed with the Pacers’ Reggie Miller in a conference finals game. Miller went on to the lead the Pacers to victory, drawing a “Thanks a Lot Spike” headline from The New York Daily News.Jackson and Lee have a history as well, with Jackson appearing in “Do the Right Thing,” “School Daze,” “Jungle Fever” and “Mo Better Blues.” They are also both alumni of Morehouse College.In this age of smartphones, there’s a good chance that those at the Oscars who cared already knew the Knicks score, perhaps including Lee.That wasn’t the case in 1976, when Elliott Gould, presenting the award for best editing, alerted the audience that Indiana had won the men’s basketball national championship, 86-68. “I listened to the score before we went out to make the presentation,” he told Grantland. “Literally in the wings, there was a radio there.”By the way, along with his co-writers, Lee won on Sunday, his first competitive Oscar. There is no evidence that “The Ballad of Buster Scruggs” or the other nominees engaged in any tanking.An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of the actor who presented the Academy Award for best editing in 1976. He is Elliott Gould, not Eliott.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Mario Hezonja scored a career-high 30 points and made the go-ahead 3-pointer with 44 seconds left, and the New York Knicks beat the Washington Wizards at home for the first time in six years with a 113-110 victory Sunday night.Luke Kornet added 17 points and Kevin Knox had 16 for the Knicks (16-64), who would have tied the franchise record with a 65th loss had they not rallied from a 10-point deficit after three quarters.They had lost nine straight at Madison Square Garden to the Wizards since their last victory on April 9, 2013, but Hezonja brought New York back with some big plays in the final period.Starting again at point guard, he added six rebounds and five assists.Jeff Green had 19 points and Thomas Bryant scored 17 for the Wizards (32-49), who need to beat Boston on Tuesday in their final game to avoid a 50-loss season.Hezonja's 3-pointer made it 111-110, and the Knicks got the ball back when Sam Dekker lost it out of bounds. Hezonja hit two free throws for the final margin.New York has to win its last two games to avoid at least matching its 17-65 mark under Derek Fisher in 2014-15.Washington led 56-52 at halftime but New York took a 68-67 lead on Hezonja's follow shot with 7:41 remaining in the third. The Wizards ran off the next 13 points to go ahead 80-68 on Bobby Portis' 3-pointer about three minutes later, and they took an 89-79 lead to the fourth.New York made its first five 3s in the final quarter and charged back to take a 106-103 lead on Mitchell Robinson's free throws with 2:20 to play.TIP-INSWizards: Bradley Beal scored 13 points, going 5 of 17 and landing hard after a dunk in the first half. ... Jordan McRae sat out with a sore left Achilles tendon.Knicks: Dennis Smith Jr. played despite back soreness, coming off the bench to score 15 points after missing the previous three games. ... Coach David Fizdale isn't sure if guards Allonzo Trier (left calf) and Kadeem Allen (concussion) will return this season.WHAT IF?Washington coach Scott Brooks said it's hard not to look at the Eastern Conference, where a winning record wasn't required to secure a playoff berth, and think the Wizards should've been there."Every year you go down, 'OK, we came up short on that game, we should've won that game.' You can list off a bunch of games. I've always done that. When we won 60 games in OKC we did the same thing," Brooks said."There's definitely opportunity the way the East is this year. There might be three teams right at .500 — 6, 7, 8. But can't worry about that now. We've got to move forward and during a tough season a lot of good things happened."NO PROBLEM, HOUSTONFizdale wasn't concerned with Rockets starters leaving the bench before the Knicks' loss in Houston had ended on Friday, saying he didn't know their reasons for doing so and didn't need them to explain it to him."I've got a game today," he said. "I've got the Wizards."UP NEXTWizards: Host Boston on Tuesday.Knicks: Visit Chicago on Tuesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreBy Victor MatherThe Knicks won a basketball game Thursday night. That has not happened since Jan. 4.There won’t be a ticker-tape parade, but it was a surprise. This, after all, has been a really bad season for the Knicks.They are 11-47. The win, over the Atlanta Hawks, 106-91, broke an 18-game losing streak, which was a franchise record.The team traded away its most popular player by far, Kristaps Porzingis, and in return got a rookie and a couple of expiring contracts. The deal also meant the cancellation of the coming Latvian Heritage Night at Madison Square Garden, which frankly was shaping up to be one of the highlights of the season.To be fair, a core of loyalists insist that these Knicks are a fun bunch to watch. And there is optimistic talk for next year.The Knicks are bad enough to have a decent shot at the top draft pick, probably Zion Williamson, Duke’s superstar big man. Cap space will allow the team to seek big-name free agents, and there is sunny speculation that the team could land stars like Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving or even both.We’ll see about that. But for now, fans are left pondering if the Knicks are historically dreadful or just run-of-the-mill dreadful.Let’s see how the Knicks rate, at least in the current century.That means this year’s Knicks won’t have to compete against the consensus worst team of them all, the legendary 9-73 Philadelphia 76ers of 1972-73.Despite a couple of 50-win seasons, in 2000 and 2013, the Knicks’ winning percentage this century is .416, worst in the N.B.A. Yes, even worse than the Washington Wizards, and Charlotte Hornets, and even the Nets.Here is how the 2018-19 Knicks stack up.This is where it begins and ends. Wins. Losses. But mostly losses. Lots and lots of losses.The Knicks are 11-47, giving them a winning percentage that looks like a typo: .190.But there were worse seasons in the last 20 years. In 2012, the Bobcats (now the Hornets) finished at 7-59 in a lockout season for a .106 percentage.Over a full season, the 76ers in 2016, in full tanking mode, only barely managed to break double digit wins with a 10-72 record.The Knicks are only 11th worst.Even counting just those streaks that are contained in a single season, the Knicks’ 18-gamer comes up short. The 2011 Cleveland Cavaliers and the 2014 76ers both managed to stumble to 26 straight losses. After Thursday’s win, the Knicks have lost their chance at that ignominious record.The Knicks have been outscored by 8.7 points in an average game this season.Again, there have been worse teams. The 2012 Charlotte strike team lost by 13.9 points a game. The 2000 Clippers put up minus-11.5 over a full season.The Knicks are only 25th.There are those Sixers again: In 2015, they shot .408 for the season. At .430, the Knicks are 39th.The 2009 Grizzlies had only 17.4 assists per game, trailed closely by the 2006 Knicks of Larry Brown, Stephon Marbury and notorious nonpasser Eddy Curry.This season’s Knicks aren’t good, but they aren’t really bad, at 19.9, for 91st place.It is not a good time for defensive stats in the N.B.A. Using the metric points allowed per 100 possessions, three teams this season are in the top five of the century: The Cavaliers are allowing 117 points per 100, worst of the era, and indeed for as far back as Basketball-Reference’s stats go. Over the last 20 years, this season‘s Suns are second, and the Knicks, at 113.4, are seventh.Do any of this year’s Knicks individually reach truly humiliating marks? Not really.Frank Ntilikina’s .342 shooting percentage is poor certainly, but it is only 24th worst among players with 15 minutes a game and 40 games played, a lot better than DeShawn Stevenson’s .285 from the 2012 Nets.So we are forced to conclude, that while dispiritingly bad, the Knicks come up short in another way too. They are not even really close to being the worst team of the last 20 years.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — Oklahoma City wanted a win to avoid slipping into a first-round playoff matchup against the defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors.The Milwaukee Bucks, with the NBA's best record already clinched, just needed to stay healthy.Everybody got what they wanted Wednesday night.Russell Westbrook posted his 34th triple-double of the season and the Thunder beat the Bucks' backups 127-116 to lock up the sixth seed in the Western Conference playoffs.Oklahoma City (49-33) played without injured Paul George, but Westbrook, Jerami Grant and Dennis Schroder led a hot-shooting effort. Oklahoma City made a franchise-record 23 3-pointers and handed out a franchise-best 40 assists, converting 48 of 99 shots to win their fifth in a row."Good teams always respond," Schroder said. "We do whatever it takes to go out there and compete and play with each other. We live with the result."Now the playoffs come. Now everybody is excited."Westbrook had 15 points, 17 assists and 11 rebounds. He moved into a tie with Magic Johnson for second place on the career triple-double list with 138, behind only Oscar Robertson (181)."It's a blessing," Westbrook said.Schroder was 8-of-15 shooting beyond the arc and had a game-leading 32 points. Grant hit four 3s and added a career-high 28 points.The Bucks (60-22) rested star Giannis Antetokounmpo and some other key players. They found out moments after the game that they would face eighth-seeded Detroit in the first round of the playoffs.The Pistons secured a playoff berth with a win over the New York Knicks on Wednesday.Khris Middleton was the only usual Bucks starter in the starting five, and he scored 21 points in 17 minutes.Point guard Tim Frazier scored a career-high 29 points and added 13 assists for Milwaukee and D.J. Wilson had a career-high 18 points while grabbing 17 rebounds. Rookie Bonzie Colson started and scored 21 points.Middleton said the Bucks are more confident entering the playoffs than they have been in the past. The franchise has not won a playoff series since the 2000-01 season and has not had homecourt advantage in the first round in the last eight first-round series."First place in the league, 60 wins, and we have homecourt," Middleton said. "Forget about the things in the past in some ways. Just keep moving forward."The Bucks finished tied for the third-best record in franchise history and their best since the 1980-81 season."We're just trying to soak it all in right now," said Bucks guard Eric Bledsoe, who was held out Wednesday. "We went through a lot of adversity to get to this point. I'm really proud of this group."TIP-INSThunder: Oklahoma City faced a waiting game to find out its first-round playoff foe. The Thunder had a chance to face Denver, Houston or Portland, depending on results of Wednesday's late games. George did not play after aggravating a right shoulder injury in the Thunder's 112-111 victory over Houston on Tuesday night. George hit the game-winning 3-pointer vs. the Rockets with 1.8 seconds left.Bucks: Antetokounmpo and Brook Lopez sat out the season finale for load management, and point guard Eric Bledsoe did not play. It was the first game Lopez missed after starting all 81 games and it was the 10th game Antetokounmpo missed. ... F Nikola Mirotic could be ready for the start of the playoffs this weekend. Mirotic suffered a fractured left thumb against the Los Angeles Lakers on March 19 and did not play in the final 11 regular-season games. ... G Tony Snell (left ankle sprain) is unlikely to return at the start of the playoffs. Sterling Brown will keep his spot in the starting lineup.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOpening day of the NBA postseason was no time to be home.Not home for the summer. Home for a game.Only the Golden State Warriors managed to win there Saturday in a rough day for the higher seeds. Both No. 2s lost, and the Brooklyn Nets won the game and the crowd in Philadelphia, where home fans turned on the third-seeded 76ers during an ugly performance.The 76ers will try to straighten things out when they host Game 2 on Monday, and the Warriors will try for more smooth sailing against the Clippers at Oracle Arena in the only other game scheduled.The Nets got the surprises started right from the very first game of the postseason when they beat the 76ers 111-102. Things couldn't have gone much worse for the Sixers, who couldn't quiet Brooklyn's guards or their own fans. The booing started early and grew stronger as the game went on, with Philadelphia All-Star Ben Simmons critical of the fans after being held to nine points while counterpart D'Angelo Russell had 26."We know that Game 2 will definitely be a lot harder for us," Nets guard Caris LeVert said. "We're ready for the challenge."Toronto was edged by Orlando, and Denver went down to San Antonio. But the Warriors made sure their home-court advantage didn't go to waste by beating the Clippers 121-104, getting their offense rolling early and keeping it going."Every game is different too," Stephen Curry said, "so who knows what will happen Game 2 and beyond."___Nets at 76ers, Brooklyn leads 1-0. Game 2, 8 p.m. EDT, TNT.NEED TO KNOW: The Nets will be trying for their first 2-0 lead in a series since going up 2-0 against the New York Knicks en route to a first-round sweep in 2004.KEEP AN EYE ON: The benches. Philadelphia may have one of the best starting fives in the NBA, but there's going to be an awful lot of pressure on the starters if the bench gets blown out as badly as in Game 1, when the Nets' reserves had a 59-28 scoring advantage.INJURY UPDATE: Joel Embiid is listed as questionable after he was doubtful on the eve of Game 1 with his sore knee. Nets veterans Ed Davis (sprained right ankle) and Jared Dudley (tight right calf) are being listed as questionable, though Davis said he expected to play after finishing with 12 points and 16 rebounds in the opener.PRESSURE IS ON: Simmons. Maybe he doesn't need to outplay high school teammate Russell, but the 76ers probably can't afford for LeVert (23 points) and Spencer Dinwiddie (18) to outplay him, too.___Clippers at Warriors, Golden State leads 1-0. Game 2, 10:30 p.m. EDT, TNT.NEED TO KNOW: Patrick Beverley and Kevin Durant insisted after their ejections in Game 1 they were just having fun and trash-talking in the heat of the playoffs. Whether those high emotions spill into Game 2 will be something to monitor considering if the two-time defending champion Warriors make a deep run again, Durant already has two technicals with seven bringing on an automatic suspension."Nah, I can control myself," Durant said, unconcerned.The officials heard their share of arguing from both sides."I thought the ejection was too quick, especially being playoff basketball," Clippers guard Lou Williams said. "Everybody knows what Pat brings to the table and the type of competitor that he is. It might have went quick because of the back and forth they had right before that, but I thought it was quick. I think both guys were competing, and that was it."KEEP AN EYE ON: The Warriors blocked 14 shots in Game 1, getting three each by Durant, Klay Thompson and Andre Iguodala. That was their most all season and tied a franchise playoff high also done on April 27, 1989, at Utah in the first round.COUSINS' NEXT CHANCE: DeMarcus Cousins fouled out of his playoff debut after a nine-year wait, so the big man will be looking to bounce back from a disappointing playoff opener in which he had nine points, nine rebounds and four assists. He returned Jan. 18 against the Clippers after a nearly yearlong absence recovering from a torn left Achilles tendon that required surgery while he was with New Orleans."I don't need to say anything to DeMarcus. It was a frustrating night for him, fouling out, a couple tough calls," coach Steve Kerr said. "But it was important for him to get his feet wet and feel the playoffs, feel the energy, and I have no doubt he'll come back and play a lot better in Game 2."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAs the crowd filed out of the Barclays Center in May 2015, there was reason for hope. Though the Nets had just been eliminated by the Atlanta Hawks in the first round of the playoffs, they had overachieved and shown some promise for the future. And Phil Jackson had become the Knicks president the year before, bringing his triangle offense and a coaching résumé that included 11 N.B.A. titles to Manhattan.Little did New York fans know that it would be four dreadful years before playoff basketball would return to the city. It finally will on Thursday night, when the Nets host the Philadelphia 76ers in a series tied at one all.While there has been no playoff basketball in the city in the interim, much has happened in those four years. And for Knicks and Nets fans, not much of it has been good.May 1, 2015 The eighth-seeded Nets fall to the top-seeded Hawks, 111-87. But they take two games in the series, raising optimism. “We were able to secure a playoff spot,” Coach Lionel Hollins says. “Some people will say, ‘Hey, we didn’t deserve it.’ That’s their problem.”June 25 After putting up a 17-65 record, the worst in franchise history and the league’s second worst in 2015, the Knicks have bad luck in the draft lottery, ending up at the No. 4 spot. Nevertheless, their selection, Kristaps Porzingis of Latvia, will pay off, quickly becoming a star and a fan favorite.Oct. 3 Knicks Coach Derek Fisher gets into a physical altercation after being confronted by Matt Barnes of the Memphis Grizzlies at the home of Barnes’s estranged wife. Barnes is suspended for two games.Dec. 30 Cleanthony Early of the Knicks is shot in the knee by masked men and robbed of gold teeth caps after a visit to a strip club.Jan. 10, 2016 The Nets fire Coach Hollins and demote General Manager Billy King with the team at 10-27. “Frankly speaking, I deserve a championship now much more than six years ago,”  owner Mikhail D. Prokhorov says.Feb. 8 The Knicks, 23-31, fire Fisher. “There’s not a whole lot to say,” Jackson says in his first remarks to reporters since the start of training camp.April 13 The Nets finish the season 21-61, the league’s third worst record. But there will be little help on draft day: They traded their top pick to the Celtics in 2014 for a 37-year-old Kevin Garnett and a 36-year-old Paul Pierce, both of whom are gone at this point.The Knicks finish 32-50. That’s a 15-game improvement, but Jackson says, “We’re disappointed about our season.”April 17 The Nets hire Kenny Atkinson, a Hawks assistant, as head coach. “Together, we can do great things,” Prokhorov says.June 2 The Knicks hire Jeff Hornacek as coach, bypassing the interim coach, Kurt Rambis.June 22 The Knicks trade for Derrick Rose, who proclaims them a “superteam.” After a year he will leave for the Cleveland Cavaliers.July 7 The Nets sign Jeremy Lin, perhaps hoping to recapture the Linsanity that took over the Knicks in 2012.July 8 The Knicks sign Joakim Noah for four years and $72 million. This will not work out. Noah will be suspended for 20 games for a drug violation, be sent to the developmental league and get into a shouting match with Hornacek. The Knicks wind up releasing him in 2018 and paying him anyway.Feb. 8, 2017 The Knicks legend Charles Oakley is ejected from Madison Square Garden during a game. The crowd sides with the former player, chanting “Oakley, Oakley.” The Knicks say he behaved abusively, and the owner, James L. Dolan, says that Oakley “may have a problem with alcohol.” Oakley sues, claiming defamation and battery.March 12 Carmelo Anthony gets his 10,000th point as a Knick, becoming the third player to reach that mark with two teams.April 12 The Nets finish 20-62, the worst record in the league. Once again a potentially high draft pick is gone, as part of the Garnett deal. The Knicks are 31-51.June 22 The Nets trade their longtime star Brook Lopez to the Los Angeles Lakers for D’Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov. Russell will become a key player in the team’s resurgence.June 28 The Knicks and Phil Jackson agree to part ways after three years. The Knicks never fully embraced his triangle offense, and Jackson remained wary of the 3-point shot as it became increasingly important in the league. He also could never seem to get rid of Anthony, the team’s aging star who refused to waive a no-trade clause. Jackson also feuded with the player expected to be the team’s future, Porzingis.Sept. 25 A trade is finally worked out for Anthony, who is sent to the Oklahoma City Thunder for Enes Kanter. He gave the Knicks seven seasons of 20-points-a-game play. Jackson was willing “to trade me for a bag of chips,” Anthony says. He also notes that under new management, “They went from asking for peanuts to asking for steak.”Oct. 18 Lin ruptures a knee tendon  in the Nets’ opening game and misses the entire season.Feb. 6, 2018 Porzingis tears the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee and is out for the rest of this season and the next one.April 11 The Nets finish 28-54. Incredibly, for a third straight year they do not have their top pick because of that Garnett deal. (Garnett is by now 41 and has been out of the league two years.) The lost picks turned into Jaylen Brown, a big part of the contending Celtics; Markelle Fultz, a No. 1 overall choice; and Collin Sexton, who averaged 17 points as a rookie with the Cleveland Cavaliers.The Knicks wind up 29-53 and fire Hornacek the next day. David Fizdale will be the new coach.Asked how the Knicks can improve, the superfan Spike Lee can only turn to prayer: “On bended knee I pray above to da basketball gods to deliver us back to da glory years of da Orange and Blue. Amen,” he writes in The New York Times.June 20 The Nets make a trade to get Dwight Howard from the Hornets, but Howard buys his way out of his contract and never plays for them.July 13 The Nets trade Lin to the Hawks, curing the city’s second, significantly milder case of Linsanity.Jan. 31, 2019 The Knicks  send their most popular player, Porzingis, who is still recovering from the torn A.C.L., to the Dallas Mavericks in a blockbuster trade. Two months later it will be revealed that he is under investigation by the New York Police Department after being accused of sexual assault.The Knicks get Dennis Smith Jr. and some expiring contracts, which should open up salary cap space so they can sign some marquee free agents. Assuming that marquee free agents would want to play for the Knicks.March 12 Knicks fans hoping for a change in ownership are disappointed when Dolan proclaims that he will not sell the team, even for $6 billion. Two days before that, he was filmed threatening a fan with banishment from the Garden after the fan had urged him to sell the team.April 10 The Knicks have sunk to the bottom of the league again, finishing 17-65 and tying the franchise-worst mark. The Nets start the season 8-18, but then unexpectedly turn things around behind Russell, Spencer Dinwiddie (picked up from the developmental league in 2016) and Jarrett Allen (a No. 22 pick in 2017). They finish 42-40. Playoff basketball returns to New York. For now.An earlier version of this article misstated the Knicks’ record in the 2014-15 season. They were 17-65, not 17-63.Benjamin Hoffman contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperCHARLOTTE, N.C. — After two weeks of Anthony Davis’s trade request dominating conversation around the N.B.A., Commissioner Adam Silver on Saturday sounded sanguine about any possible negative effects it was having on the league.“Some of the greatest players in the history of this league have demanded trades at various points of their contracts,” he said at his annual All-Star weekend address. He went on to say that there was “very little” he could do to completely stop players from trying to force trades.Davis was fined $50,000 for the public trade request made by his agent, Rich Paul. Silver said it was healthy for players and their agents to have ongoing conversations with their teams about future intentions, but that he preferred that such conversations happen behind closed doors. As for the frenzy of news media attention surrounding Davis and his possible destination this summer, Silver said the “public spectacle” wasn’t the type of media interest the league wanted.“We certainly are becoming a 52-week-a-year sport, and it’s largely the result of tremendous interest in these players,” he said. “I think we could do a better job as a league in avoiding those situations where they get to the point where players are maybe demanding they be traded or, worst-case scenario, saying, ‘I’m not going to honor my contract.’”[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]Silver has frequently stated a desire to improve the N.B.A.’s competitive balance. Asked whether small-market teams could compete with large-market franchises, Silver largely disputed the premise without even citing the fact that the Milwaukee Bucks, a small-market club, currently have the best winning percentage in the league.He took the opposite approach.“I’m not even sure where the line is anymore on big markets,” he said, pointing out that the Los Angeles Lakers, New York Knicks and Chicago Bulls — teams that play in major cities — have struggled on the court in recent years.Silver also said it was too early to judge whether reforms to the draft lottery, intended to reduce the incentive to tank in pursuit of a high draft pick, were having the intended effect. Four teams this year are on pace to win fewer than 20 games, but Silver said there is also an unusually large number still in contention for a playoff berth.“I personally don’t think it is a winning strategy over the long term, losing for multiple years,” said Silver. He also said that choosing to be uncompetitive for an extended period of time would most likely have a “corrosive’’ effect on any team that took that approach.Taken together, Silver’s responses to questions suggested that he was relatively happy with the state of the N.B.A. and believed that the league’s problems could be solved through tweaks to the system, not wholesale changes.Silver opened the news conference by addressing House Bill 2, the law passed in North Carolina in 2016 that invalidated local government ordinances establishing anti-discrimination protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people and required people in publicly owned buildings to use restrooms that corresponded with the genders listed on their birth certificates. In response to the law, the N.B.A. took the All-Star Game, originally scheduled to be played in Charlotte in 2017, away from the city.He said it was the view of the league office that the law discriminated against the LGBTQ community, and subsequently the N.B.A. made the decision that it was “inconsistent with the values of this league to play the All-Star Game here under those circumstances.” The N.B.A. decided to return after the law was partially repealed.Asked about efforts to improve the culture of the Dallas Mavericks, where a league investigation found numerous instances of sexual harassment and improper conduct among employees, Silver offered few specifics but said there was a “complete sea change in culture on the business side” of the organization.Earlier Saturday, the N.B.A., in partnership with the International Basketball Federation, announced the formation of the Basketball Africa League, a 12-team professional league made up of clubs from across Africa. The league will begin play in 2020, the first time that the N.B.A. will be involved in the operation of a league outside of North America.Many details, including which clubs from which countries will be part of the league, have yet to be finalized, but Silver did say that former President Barack Obama would be involved in the league in an unspecified capacity.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein and Kevin DraperDALLAS — Moments before the home team was introduced on Monday night, Kristaps Porzingis made his usual walk behind the scorer’s table to take a seat on the Dallas Mavericks’ bench at American Airlines Center.Wearing a three-piece olive suit and a maroon tie, Porzingis saluted a friendly face in the crowd and proceeded to what has become his customary vantage point. It was Porzingis’s 13th home game as a spectator since Dallas acquired him from the Knicks on Feb. 1, as he continues to recover from a serious knee injury he sustained in February 2018.Porzingis, in other words, projected normalcy in his first public appearance since it emerged that he is under investigation by law enforcement authorities in New York City over an accusation that he sexually assaulted a woman there.As the Mavericks reveled in an unforeseen 16 points and 14 rebounds from the reserve center Salah Mejri, Porzingis was right in the heart of multiple bench celebrations. Coach Rick Carlisle had given Porzingis the option of taking personal time away from the team to escape the glare of the spotlight, but Porzingis declined. He wants to keep practicing, Carlisle said, and uphold his rooting routine through the final five games of the Mavericks’ third successive season of missing the playoffs.These, of course, are not normal times for the Mavericks — not when Porzingis, whom they acquired just 60 days ago to serve as a cornerstone for the franchise alongside the electric Slovene rookie Luka Doncic, is facing such grave allegations.Porzingis’s lawyer, Roland G. Riopelle, “unequivocally” denied the accusation and revealed that he formally referred the accuser to the F.B.I. in December for what he termed her “extortionate demands.”The New York Police Department and the Manhattan district attorney’s office have confirmed an investigation is underway, but representatives have declined to comment further. The woman filed a complaint on Thursday that accused Porzingis of sexually assaulting her in his Manhattan apartment on Feb. 7, 2018 — mere hours after he sustained the debilitating knee injury.The woman did not respond to several phone calls requesting comment.For the Mavericks — one season removed from a sexual harassment scandal that led to multiple firings and an overhaul of the franchise’s business and human resources departments — the case has invited fresh scrutiny of a trade for a marquee player who is the subject of a serious criminal complaint.Complicating matters for the Mavericks is their assertion that they cannot comment on the investigation. Before Monday’s unexpected victory over the short-handed Philadelphia 76ers, the Mavericks’ owner, Mark Cuban, reiterated to a group of reporters that the team was told by federal authorities not to comment about the case. The F.B.I. declined to comment.“I’ve got nothing to say — n-o-t-h-i-n-g,” Cuban said, spelling out the word and repeating a stance he has maintained since the allegations against Porzingis were first revealed Saturday night. “When I said federal authorities said for us not to comment, they were being serious.”Cuban and other Mavericks officials have referred all Porzingis-related questions to the N.B.A. The league office, however, has not responded to requests for further elaboration from The New York Times beyond its brief initial statement, from the N.B.A. spokesman Mike Bass, that “we are aware of the situation.”Riopelle said he had provided the district attorney’s office with materials that show the woman attempted to extort Porzingis.“We are confident that after the district attorney reviews these materials, they will recognize that the complaint in this case is completely meritless,” Riopelle said.Porzingis’s camp has received public backing from Michele Roberts, executive director of the National Basketball Players Association and a former trial lawyer.“We have been aware of these allegations for some time, have evaluated the accuser’s claims and, based on what is presently before us, stand with Kristaps,” Roberts said in a statement.The New York Times reported on Saturday that before the trade, the Knicks made the Mavericks aware of a potential “extortion issue” with Porzingis. One person briefed on the trade call between the teams and who was not authorized to discuss it publicly expressed the belief on Monday that the N.B.A. would not have allowed the trade to go through if the case against Porzingis appeared to be strong.It appears that the N.B.A. is letting that investigation play out or awaiting further developments before deciding on any action against Porzingis — although the league, under the terms of its joint policy with the players’ association on matters of sexual assault, can place players on administrative leave in these situations if it sees fit.Dallas had aggressively pursued the trade for Porzingis, a 7-foot-3 forward from Latvia, with an open determination to sign him to a new five-year maximum contract worth an estimated $158 million in July. Cuban declined to answer on Monday night when a reporter asked if the Mavericks remained eager to sign Porzingis to such a lucrative contract.Not much with the Mavericks is clear at the moment, although Carlisle insisted to the news media before the Philadelphia game that “basketballwise, it’s business as usual,” no matter what is swirling around Porzingis. Dallas then went out and took advantage of the sidelined Joel Embiid (knee) and Jimmy Butler (back) to follow up Sunday afternoon’s win at Oklahoma City — despite Doncic’s injury absence — with a 122-102 rout of the 76ers.“Did we look distracted?” Carlisle said.Marc Stein reported from Dallas, and Kevin Draper from New York. Zolan Kanno-Youngs contributed reporting from Washington.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — CJ McCollum likes when games get gritty.The guard scored 33 points as the Portland Trail Blazers took a 2-0 lead in their playoff series against the Oklahoma City Thunder with a 114-94 victory on Tuesday night.Tense at times with plenty of jawing back-and-forth between the teams, the series now heads to Oklahoma City for Game 3 on Friday."I love it, that's what I live for," said McCollum, who missed 10 games late in the regular season because of a knee injury. "Just like playing on the playground."Damian Lillard added 29 points for the third-seeded Blazers, who opened a playoff series with two wins for the first time since the 2014 playoffs, when they beat Houston in six games.Russell Westbrook, who had his ninth career postseason triple-double in Oklahoma City's Game 1 loss, finished with 14 points, nine rebounds and 11 assists. He was pulled with 3:31 with most of his fellow starters after Portland built a 112-91 lead.Westbrook was just 5 of 20 from the field, including 1 for 6 on 3-point attempts. Collectively, the Thunder were 5 of 28 from the perimeter."I've got to play better," Westbrook said. "Tonight, the loss, I'm going to take full responsibility of tonight because the way I played was unacceptable. I'm going to be better."Paul George had 27 points despite lingering questions about his right shoulder, which was covered with kinesiology tape.Portland's victory in Game 1 snapped a 10-game postseason losing streak that included four-game sweeps in the past two seasons — first by the Warriors and then last year by the Pelicans. Lillard had 30 points in the 104-99 win on Sunday.Oklahoma City beat the Blazers in all four meetings during the regular season. The Thunder have been to the playoffs for eight of the last nine seasons, but they haven't gotten past the opening round for the past two.Oklahoma City started with a lot more energy than in Game 1, when it fell behind by 19 points in the first half. When Westbrook hit a 3-pointer in the first quarter, he pounded his chest and the Thunder went on to lead 31-26 at the end of the period.Lillard hit a 3-pointer and was fouled to close the Blazers within 48-43. But the game began to get heated, with Lillard and Westbrook getting into it when Lillard tried to strip the ball. The officials reviewed it for a "hostile act" but concluded there were no fouls on the play. It was chippy for much of the game, and at one point Lillard and Steven Adams stared each other down after Adams set a screen on the All-Star guard."With this team it's physical. It's physical every time we've played them," said Portland's Maurice Harkless, who finished with 14 points. "It's only magnified now — and it's only going to get more physical."Westbrook collected three fouls in the first half and headed early to the bench, as did Portland's Enes Kanter, who was so successful against the Thunder in Game 1. Together the teams had 29 fouls in the opening half and there were 54 for the game.McCollum nailed a 3-pointer off a pass from Lillard at the buzzer to tie the game at 54 going into the break. Then McCollum turned to the crowd and simply nodded."My body feels good," said McCollum, playing in his fourth game since the layoff because of a left knee strain. "Coming off an injury, being able to get into a rhythm and get up and down. Being able to find that rhythm is very important to me."Portland pulled in front on McCollum's jumper and extended it to 69-63 with Lillard's long 3-pointer. Seth Curry had back-to-back 3s to put the Blazers up 85-73 late in the third.The Blazers' hopes for postseason success appeared to take a blow last month when center Jusuf Nurkic was lost for the season with a broken left leg. Nurkic was averaging 15.6 points and 10.4 rebounds when he sustained the gruesome injury during a game against the Brooklyn Nets.Kanter, signed just before the All-Star break after he was waived by the New York Knicks, has started in Nurkic's place. Kanter had 20 points and 18 rebounds in Game 1 but finished with six points and five rebounds on Tuesday.At one point in the first half Kanter got knocked in the hand and X-rays at halftime revealed a contusion. But he said following the game that he'd be fine for Game 3.TIP-INSThunder: Thunder coach Billy Donovan was emphatic before the game: "No injuries, no one out, no game-time decisions." ... It's the first playoff series between the teams since the Thunder moved from Seattle to Oklahoma City.Trail Blazers: Seattle Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson, who just signed a contract extension that makes him the highest paid player in the NFL, was among the fans at the Moda Center, as was Gonzaga coach Mark Few. ... Jake Layman, who did not play in the series opener, came in to start the second quarter.TROUBLE FROM DISTANCEDonovan said he'll take a look at why the Thunder aren't faring well from 3-point range. The team also struggled in Game 1, making just five of 33 attempts."For the most part, I think we got fairly decent looks and we're going to have to take them," Donovan said. "As the ball gets driven downhill, and teams bring help and protect the rim, you just can't force the ball in there and take tough, ill-advised shots. And when the ball gets sprayed back out to the perimeter and guys are open, it's hard to say, 'OK, just drive it right back to the help again and hope they move out of the way.'"UP NEXT: Game 3 is set for Friday night in Oklahoma City.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — After eight straight playoff losses over the past two years, the Portland Trail Blazers finally got a win.Damian Lillard scored 30 points and the third-seeded Blazers opened their series against the No. 6 Oklahoma City Thunder on Sunday with a 104-99 victory."We know how it feels to win again," Lillard said. "Now we can just kind of move on from that and stay focused on this series."Portland was swept by New Orleans last season and the Warriors the year before.Enes Kanter added 20 points and a career playoff-high 18 rebounds for the Blazers, who were making their sixth straight postseason appearance. CJ McCollum added 24 points.Russell Westbrook had 24 points, 10 assists and 10 rebounds for his ninth career postseason triple-double. Paul George, who was a game-time decision because of a sore shoulder, added 26 points and 10 rebounds despite a rough shooting night.Westbrook appeared to hurt his right ankle in the final quarter and grimaced while trying to walk it off. Trainers attended to him on the bench at the next timeout but he returned and his layup closed the gap to 91-87 with just under 4 minutes left.Asked about it afterward, Westbrook said: "We'll see."After trailing by as many as 19 points in the first half, Oklahoma City pulled within as 93-92 on George's 3-pointer with 2:44 left. Lillard answered with a long 3-pointer to keep the Blazers ahead and Al-Farouq Aminu made free throws to extend Portland's lead to 98-92.George made a 3-pointer with 8.2 seconds remaining to get the Thunder within 100-97 but Portland hung on."We knew it was going to be a fight all night long. Even at the beginning of the game when we were up like 17 at one point, I wasn't looking at the scoreboard like, 'Let's put them away." I was like, 'Let's just stay solid, keep competing, keep playing hard,' Lillard said. "And then when they make their runs, and when they get back in the game, (you) just weather those storms."It was the first postseason meeting between the teams since the Thunder moved from Seattle to Oklahoma City.Oklahoma City beat the Blazers in all four meetings this season, including a heated 129-121 overtime victory on March 7.The Thunder have been to the playoffs for eight of the last nine seasons, but they haven't gotten past the opening round for the past two.George was nursing a sore right shoulder and was considered day-to-day for Sunday's game but he started. However he was just 1 of 6 from the floor in the opening quarter. For the game, he made four of 15 3-point attempts."Four days ago I couldn't even lift my shoulder," he said. "Then fast forward to today this is the first day I've even shot the ball, so for me it's just rhythm."George missed the Thunder' regular-season finale Wednesday at Milwaukee because of the nagging injury, which also kept him out of games on Feb. 28, March 2 and March 3.McCollum missed 10 games down the stretch with a left knee strain and had only played in two games since returning. But he started and hit his first two 3-point attempts.The Blazers' hopes for postseason success were dealt a blow last month when center Jusuf Nurkic was lost for the season with a broken left leg. Nurkic was averaging 15.6 points and 10.4 rebounds when he sustained the gruesome injury during a game against the Brooklyn Nets.Kanter, signed just before the All-Star break after he was waived by the New York Knicks, has started in Nurkic's place.The Thunder rallied from a 19-point deficit in the first half to trail by just 54-48 at the break. But they struggled from 3-point range, making just two of 18 attempts.There was simmering tension between the teams. Terrance Ferguson and McCollum had a heated exchange in the second quarter, earning technical fouls. Ferguson earned his third foul and headed to the bench.Westbrook's layup got the Thunder within 64-60, but he collected his fourth foul late in the third and went to the bench. The Blazers went into the fourth quarter with a 76-69 lead.The Thunder's only lead was in the opening quarter."It's a series. First to four. They won the first game," Westbrook said. "Now we make adjustments, come back, play harder next game and try to take it."TIP-INS:Thunder: While the Thunder swept the Blazers 4-0 during the regular season, Portland swept them in four games the season before.Trail Blazers: Blazers coach Terry Stotts concluded his pregame talk with the media by saying. "All right. Masters." The Blazers were 8-8 in the postseason against the SuperSonics. ... Portland had won the last eight regular-season games at the Moda Center. ... Kanter had his third playoff double-double. ... The Blazers haven't made it out of the first round for the past two seasons. Last year as a No. 3 seed Portland got swept by the New Orleans Pelicans.KANTER'S DAYIn just his ninth start with the Blazers, Kanter became just the third player in team history with at least 20 points and 18 rebounds in playoff game. Bill Walton did it three times and LaMarcus Aldridge once."He gave us a lot of toughness inside," Stotts said. "Obviously, his rebounding and scoring. I thought his conditioning was really good. He maintained a high level of play for a long period of time."UP NEXT: Game 2 is Tuesday night at the Moda Center.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaThe Los Angeles Lakers lost their season to injuries and general ineptitude weeks ago, and all that remains for them now are a handful of games and a playoff-free finish. It turns out there is still plenty of room for minor calamities along the way, which they proved at Madison Square Garden on Sunday afternoon.In a sleepy matinee devoid of long-term consequences, the Lakers’ 124-123 loss to the Knicks was, in some ways, a symbol for all that has gone wrong for them — and for LeBron James in particular. Absent a bunch of injured players, the Lakers crumbled against the worst team in the league, and James, for all his ability, was more problem than solution.After hogging the ball for his team’s final four possessions, James had a leaning runner — one that could have put his team ahead — blocked by the Knicks’ Mario Hezonja in the waning seconds. For the Knicks, who have been bound for the N.B.A. draft lottery since training camp, it was a rare chance to celebrate. For the Lakers, who had seemingly hit rock bottom when they lost to the Phoenix Suns two weeks ago, it was another opportunity to rev up the backhoe and dig a little deeper.“We got real stagnant,” said Lakers forward Kyle Kuzma, who was reduced to a spectator on the court late in the game as James tried to win it by himself.James’s appearances at the Garden are usually big deals. He likes the lights, the stage, the grandeur, the history. But the postbrunch atmosphere for Sunday’s game had all the buzz of a linoleum convention, an indictment of two lousy teams playing for nothing — and an indication, perhaps, that James has lost some of his luster this season.He had his moments — a dunk here, a no-look pass there — that had the crowd roaring with appreciation. James finished with 33 points, 8 assists and 6 rebounds, which is a fairly ordinary game for him — even now, at age 34, chest-deep in his 16th season.But he has set an impossible standard for himself, and his late-game struggles against the Knicks were emblematic of a season gone awry. He faded badly in the fourth quarter, shooting 4 of 15 from the field as Hezonja did what he could to make James’s afternoon as difficult as possible. James missed his final four field-goal attempts.“Anytime he was with the ball, I was trying to get him tired,” Hezonja said.It is hardly the worst strategy to have James dominate the ball in pressure situations and let him do what he wants. How many times has he come through?“Like, thousands,” Hezonja said.But this season has been a sad anomaly for James, who missed a large chunk of time with a groin injury and then did little to resuscitate things once he returned.In a few weeks, James’s streak of 13 straight playoff appearances and eight straight trips to the N.B.A. finals will come to an end. No one expected him to haul the Lakers (31-39) to the mountaintop — the roster was poorly constructed from the start — but the level of dysfunction has been fairly shocking. James is already banking on the off-season.“There’s a lot of great free agents this summer,” James said. “Not going to name any names, because every time I say something, or our organization says something about a specific person, we get in trouble. But we have an opportunity to get better.”For now, though, James is taking some hits to his reputation. There was the Anthony Davis saga, which seemed to erode whatever fragile chemistry the team had left. There was James’s subsequent pledge to “activate” himself into playoff mode, which merely resulted in more losses. And there was Sunday, when James tried to win the game by himself and came up empty.Even Walt Frazier, the Hall of Fame guard who is an analyst for MSG Network, criticized James during Sunday’s broadcast for sitting apart from his teammates, at the end of the bench, during an early timeout. “When you’re the face of the N.B.A., you should be more a part of the team,” Frazier said.To be fair, James was not in the game at the time, and he always sits at the end of the bench. But the optics were poor, and James has not been an exemplar of team-building this season. It has been easy to find faults. And sure enough, late in the fourth quarter, he appeared to show, once again, how little he trusts his teammates.“We got the ball in our best player’s hands and we tried to make him make the right decisions,” Kuzma said. “We just try and live with it.”The Knicks, who closed the game on a 13-1 run, have won 14 games this season. Two of those wins have come against the Lakers. James was asked if that bothered him.“It bothers me that we didn’t close the game out,” James said. “And being the competitor that I am, it bothers me that I didn’t make enough plays down the stretch. It bothers me that I didn’t even get a shot up at the hoop. Of course that stuff bothers me.“But what’s the difference between their record and our record? Two teams out of the postseason. So there’s no difference.”No difference between two bad teams, except that James plays for one of them. And that is the biggest surprise of all.Kelly Whiteside contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideIn a rookie season that has resembled a seismograph, Knicks forward Kevin Knox needed a performance like Sunday’s against the Los Angeles Lakers. He scored 19 points with an array of shots, slashing to the basket, hitting a step-back 3-pointer while guarded by LeBron James and finishing with finesse on a driving, left-handed layup.“Hello, Kevin Knox. It was good to see him play well,” Knicks Coach David Fizdale said. “He’s had his bumps. We know it’s there, it’s in there. It’s just a matter of the ball going in and him getting his confidence up. But I really thought he came with a mind-set that he was going to get out of this rut. The way he was attacking, the force he was playing with.”Knox shot 8 of 14 from the field and 3 of 5 from 3-point range in the Knicks’ 124-123 victory over the Lakers, their 14th win in a dismal season.“I’d been struggling a little bit, but the whole team and coaching staff had confidence in me,” Knox said. “I came to work every single day, got up extra shots. I knew I was going to come out of the streak, so I just wanted to make sure I kept shooting.”Last year the Knicks selected Knox, a freshman from Kentucky, in the first round of the draft, ninth over all. After an ankle sprain sidelined him at the start of the season, Knox’s play took off in December, when he averaged 17.1 points and was named the Eastern Conference rookie of the month.Knox, 19, hit the rookie wall beginning in mid-January, with a 20-game stretch in which he shot 31.8 percent from the field and 27.7 from beyond the 3-point arc. The slump started soon after he scored 31 points, his highest total in the N.B.A., during a game against the Philadelphia 76ers.Shortly before that, Knox had said that he was still learning how to adjust to the demands of the long N.B.A. schedule and its 48-minute games, compared with a 40 minutes in college and A.A.U. ball.“It’s totally different,” he said in late December. “Eight minutes doesn’t seem like a lot, but it really is. That’s a whole quarter almost. Eight minutes is a long time in basketball.”To improve his fitness, Knox did extra sprints after practice and spent more time on the treadmill, running spurts of 15 minutes with the last two as fast as he could.At various points in the season, Fizdale has brought in former Knicks greats like Bernard King, Patrick Ewing, Bill Bradley and Walt Frazier to speak to his young, struggling team. (The coach, who was a Miami Heat assistant coach when James played for them, also made a point of introducing Knox to the Lakers star after Sunday’s game.)King, who was with the Knicks for five seasons in the mid-1980s, and was known for his seemingly unstoppable baseline turnaround jump shot, has focused especially on mentoring Knox.In between their meetings early in the season, Knox studied online video highlights from King’s career.“He helps my game, every time I talk to him,” Knox said. “He’s kind of like me, a wing that gets to the basket, loves transition. He kind of reminds me of myself.”Perhaps the other way around, rook.Knox said he had sought out his own tutors as well, connecting with Chris Bosh, Grant Hill, Jalen Rose, Carmelo Anthony and former Kentucky players for bits of advice during the trying moments.After Monday night’s 128-92 loss in Toronto, the Knicks had 11 games left in the season, all of them meaningless, except for their effect on the draft. The three teams with the lowest win totals will each have a 14 percent of landing the No. 1 selection in June, which presumably will be the Duke freshman Zion Williamson.The Knicks, who have the worst record in the league (14-57), are expected to lose their way into one of those slots, even after that uplifting win against the Lakers, which ended when the Knicks’ Mario Hezonja blocked a shot by James in the waning seconds.“We had a lot of ups and downs this season,” Knox said afterward. “It was big-time win, the first sweep of the season. It’s just a great way to win in the Garden, in the last 10 seconds, against one of the best players to ever play the game and we get a defensive stop with the crowd standing up yelling.”At a critical stretch in the fourth quarter, the Knicks had its three rookies on the court — Knox, center Mitchell Robinson, guard Allonzo Trier — plus guard Kadeem Allen, who was just called up from the Westchester developmental team, and forward Lance Thomas, the longest-tenured Knick.“There’s a process that needs to happen, and ours is growth, making sure the young guys are getting the experience they need in order to be good in this league,” Thomas said. “A lot of young guys don’t get to play especially extended minutes in their first year. It’s a learning experience for young guys. Our goal is to fast-track them.”Knox is sixth in the league among rookies in minutes played per game, at 28, despite shooting a subpar 36.4 percent from the field and struggling with weakside defense. He is averaging 12.3 points with 4.3 rebounds.Even so, Fizdale has never considered sending Knox to Westchester to work on his game in the anonymity of the G League “because our team was already like a glorified G League team,” Fizdale told reporters last week. Because his rookies played substantial minutes all season, he said, he thought it was better for them to take their knocks against the best.Such as James on Sunday and Toronto’s Kawhi Leonard on Monday.“Welcome to the league, kid,” Fizdale said. “This is what it’s about. This is why I wanted him in this. Take those lumps now. Later on in his career, no one will remember this stuff when he is the guy beating up on kids. This is all good for him.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperDespite the wishes of at least one fan, James L. Dolan is adamant that he will not sell the Knicks.“For the record, I am not selling the team, and I am not quitting,” Dolan, the team’s owner, said on Tuesday during a rare radio interview.Even, he was asked, if he were offered $6 billion, much more than the team is valued?“No, we are not selling the team,” he said.Dolan was speaking on The Michael Kay Show on 98.7 ESPN New York three days after a Knicks fan confronted him after a loss at Madison Square Garden and yelled for him to sell the team. Dolan told the fan he was being rude, and implied that he would be banned from the Garden.Dolan said on Tuesday that if he could have done things over again he would not have “taken the bait” and instead would have walked past the fan without engaging.Dolan confirmed that the fan, who has yet to be publicly identified, was indeed banned from the Garden. “If you have someone that comes in and plans on making a scene and being confrontational and ruining the event for other people, including the owner, you can’t come back,” he said. “I’m sorry.”In the interview, Dolan was challenged by the hosts on various issues, including his treatment of the New York Daily News. While the Daily News is granted the access to Knicks games and practices required by the N.B.A.’s media guidelines, the paper’s reporters have not been included at certain Knicks news conferences this season.“There are certain journalists that, you know, actually wish ill will toward the team,” Dolan said. “They have never written a positive story about the team. Like the Porzingis trade, those guys were like, it’s the most horrible thing, another horrible thing has happened.”Dolan said he was not concerned about appearing thin-skinned for banning the outlet. “I don’t make my decisions by P.R.,” he said. “I make my decisions based on what I think is right or wrong.”When one of the hosts, in reference to the team excluding the Daily News, called the Knicks a public trust, Dolan vehemently disagreed.“The Knicks are not owned by the public,” he said. “They are owned by the shareholders of the company, of which I am the majority shareholder, so no.”Kyle Wagner, the Daily News’ editor in charge of sports, defended the news outlet’s coverage in a statement emailed to The New York Times. “M.S.G.’s grudge against the Daily News predates the journalists writing about the Knicks in our pages today,” the statement said. “If the tone of coverage tends to be negative, it’s because the team is 41 games under .500 and has the worst winning percentage in the N.B.A. over the last 20 seasons.”The Knicks have the worst record in the N.B.A., and will miss the playoffs for a sixth consecutive season. But there is room for optimism based on the team having one of the top picks in this year’s draft and the fact that they will be far enough under the salary cap to sign two maximum-salary players this off-season.A number of top players — including Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving, Kemba Walker and Klay Thompson — are expected to be free agents, and Dolan is confident the Knicks will be able to sign two of the top players despite the team’s woes.“Free agents want to go to a winner and get paid,” said Dolan. “We are definitely going to pay them, and we think that with them and the kids we have today, we can build a winning team.”Reading from a piece of paper in front of him, Dolan cited Mitchell Robinson, Kevin Knox, Allonzo Trier and Damyean Dotson as the young players who would complement any free agent signings.The idea that Dolan might sell the team gained steam last month after the sports personality Bill Simmons said on his podcast  that Dolan was “courting offers,” citing people he talked to at the All-Star Game.The Knicks refuted the report at the time, and during Tuesday’s interview Dolan theorized that a rival general manager was giving Simmons bad information in order to destabilize the Knicks.“There are teams that do not want us to get free agents, some in particular,” said Dolan. “He is very close friends with a G.M. of one team. What they are doing is they are trying to destabilize what we have, because they know that we are favored, they know that free agents want to come to us.”Dolan would not say which general manager he was referring to. After the interview, Simmons responded with sarcasm on Twitter. “Clearly — the biggest lure for future free agents is the perennially stable Knicks franchise, all those playoff wins and the leadership of owner James Dolan,” he wrote.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinIn a wholly unforeseen span of about 20 seconds Sunday night, viewers of the Academy Awards were exposed to an impromptu bit of sports-radio banter inspired by the faraway N.B.A.Yet it was the sort of back-and-forth, however brief, that makes the league truly uncomfortable.On what would soon become the most successful evening of Spike Lee’s professional life, Samuel L. Jackson announced from the Dolby Theater stage in Los Angeles that Lee’s beloved Knicks had beaten the San Antonio Spurs at Madison Square Garden to halt a franchise-record home losing streak at 18 consecutive defeats.Lee, who was moments away from winning his first competitive Oscar, appeared to mouth back to Jackson that the Knicks were “trying to tank” — N.B.A.-speak for teams that seek to improve their position in the draft as much as possible through rampant losing.Spike Lee: "WE'RE TRYING TO TANK" pic.twitter.com/zMXArdVPr0In truth, nothing the Knicks could do — even winning — could diminish the occasion for Lee. The Knicks’ most famous fan won the Oscar that had eluded him for more than 30 years and surely knew as well as anyone that one measly victory, even over the Spurs and their decorated coach, Gregg Popovich, wouldn’t knock the team too far off course in its shameless bid to finish at the bottom of the standings.But the exchange and ensuing waves of social media chatter shined the brightest of unwanted spotlights on a subject that N.B.A. officials undoubtedly wish would not have surfaced in this manner.For it is the public discourse that surrounds tanking — which inevitably leads to otherwise passionate fans like Lee openly wishing for their teams to lose — that has long been regarded at league headquarters as the most unsavory element of the practice.Tanking, in itself, can be a foolhardy strategy — especially in the wake of a procedural change this season. This is the first year since the inception of the N.B.A.’s draft lottery in 1985 that the teams holding the three lowest win totals will share flattened odds of 14 percent each of landing the No. 1 selection in June.Previously, the team with the worst record had a 25 percent chance of winning the top overall pick. But Commissioner Adam Silver’s push for so-called lottery reform has made it even tougher for the worst team in pro basketball — currently the Phoenix Suns, who, at 12-50, are a game behind the Knicks (12-48) — to win the right to (presumably) select the highly coveted Duke freshman Zion Williamson.If only there were clear measures to be taken to try to drown out the persistent tanking talk that seemingly (and loudly) swirls around every bad N.B.A. team. “Corrosive” is the word Silver used at his annual All-Star Weekend news conference in Charlotte, N.C., this month.“I personally don’t think it’s a winning strategy over the long term to engage in multiple years of rebuilding,” Silver said. “There’s a mind-set that, if you’re going to be bad, you might as well be really bad. I believe personally that’s corrosive for those organizations.”The Philadelphia 76ers are the rare franchise in position to differ. They amassed a load of lottery picks and other trade assets across a three-year window of intentional losing during the polarizing reign of their former general manager Sam Hinkie, who stepped down in April 2016 in response to a reduction in his authority over basketball matters before having the chance to reap the full benefits of all his team’s futility.Several of Hinkie’s high-profile draftees — Jahlil Okafor, Nerlens Noel and Dario Saric — fell well short of becoming the sort of fulcrums teams build around. Ditto for the 2017 No. 1 overall pick Markelle Fultz, who was drafted by Bryan Colangelo, Hinkie’s initial replacement. But the two selections who did become franchise players — Joel Embiid (by Hinkie) and Ben Simmons (two months after Hinkie’s exit) — now find themselves flanked by the former All-Star Jimmy Butler and a potential future All-Star in Tobias Harris. Butler and Harris arrived via trades that the Sixers’ new general manager, Elton Brand, was able to swing this season on the strength of the various trade chips Philadelphia had stockpiled under Hinkie.It is too early to say whether Silver’s lottery-reform crusade will actually quell further tanking attempts from teams pondering the Philadelphia model, but it has a chance. The flattened odds of winning the lottery mean that the Suns, Knicks and Cleveland Cavaliers, who currently comprise the bottom three teams, all face a daunting 86 percent chance that someone else wins the Zion Sweepstakes when the lottery is held May 14.One can safely assume that Lee and countless other Knicks fans will be shouting less flattering things as opposed to just mouthing them if all this losing they have endured this season leads to drafting someone other than Williamson.Since the Knicks are now linked with the 1993-94 Dallas Mavericks, having narrowly avoided breaking that team’s league record of 19 straight home losses with that unexpected triumph over San Antonio on Sunday, it is worth remembering what happened to the Mavericks that season.With Jamal Mashburn as their star rookie rather than Chris Webber or Penny Hardaway, after the Mavericks fell to the No. 4 overall pick the previous off-season despite boasting the highest odds of winning the draft lottery, they posted a 13-69 record.That is the type of cautionary tale that Silver, even as tanking talk persists, can forever serve up to discourage actual tanking: In the 34-year history of the lottery, only eight times has the team with the worst record managed to win the No. 1 pick.At least one Knicks fan in Hollywood finds the idea of tanking in professional sports to be “a horrible thing to even think about.” The actor Leon Robinson, who starred in “Above the Rim” and “Cool Runnings” and has made numerous appearances at The Garden this season, said in a phone interview Monday: “I’m never happy to see my team lose. I’m in The Garden — people go crazy every time they even get close to winning. Every time they’re losing, people are shaking their heads at halftime. So I’m confused. Why are you coming to the game?”Lee, however, is hardly alone in lusting after Williamson. It’s an open secret that the Knicks are dreaming of a mammoth free-agent coup this summer with the more than $70 million of salary-cap space they can clear; Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving are widely regarded as the Knicks’ top two targets. But make no mistake: The Knicks themselves, not just a segment of the fan base, are dreaming of Zion, too — no matter what history says.Given the immediate on-court impact one extremely gifted young man can have, in this five-on-five sport more than any other, it will probably always be thus.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanEnes Kanter has found a new home with the Portland Trail Blazers.The 26-year-old center, who has averaged 14 points and 10.5 rebounds game this season, fell out of the Knicks’ rotation last month and was released last week after the N.B.A. trade deadline. Kanter announced his move Wednesday on Twitter.#RipCity⁠ ⁠ pic.twitter.com/4dTLXyZedgKanter continued to put up big numbers for the Knicks even after he was relegated to a bench role. Though limited defensively, he has a knack for low-post scoring and rebounding that led to 25 double-doubles for the Knicks this season. The most remarkable of them was a performance off the bench in November in which he had 23 points, 24 rebounds and 7 assists in a loss to the Chicago Bulls.Kanter joined the Knicks before the start of last season in the trade that sent Carmelo Anthony to Oklahoma City. He became a tabloid sensation because of his willingness to talk openly with reporters, and he occasionally ran afoul of opponents like LeBron James who considered his bark considerably worse than his bite.Kanter has also publicly addressed political issues in his native Turkey, and his criticism of the president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has left him something of a man without a country.Kanter will add depth to a Portland team that currently holds the No. 4 seed in the Western Conference. The Blazers, who already had Evan Turner and Seth Curry contributing off the bench, have added two prominent pieces, Kanter and Rodney Hood, a small forward acquired in a trade with Cleveland last week.Kanter’s play did not decline appreciably this season, but with the Knicks committed to a youth movement — and to keeping their win total low in pursuit of the No. 1 pick in the draft — there was no place for a productive center whose contract was set to expire at the end of this season. After acquiring DeAndre Jordan to help with the development of the rookie center Mitchell Robinson, the Knicks were unable to find a taker for Kanter, so they released him.Kanter had publicly complained about his treatment by the Knicks, but he wrote an open letter to fans after his release on Feb. 7, saying the team had always made him feel at home and that New York would always have “a special place in my heart.”Knicks Coach David Fizdale, who did not play Kanter in six of his last eight games with the team, said last week that he thought the decision to part ways could be good for Kanter.“I’m just hoping that he can land with a playoff team and get his feet wet into some winning,” Fizdale told reporters.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy Field Level MediaKyle Lowry scored a game-high 22 points and hit the 3-pointer with 7 minutes 3 seconds remaining that gave the Toronto Raptors the lead for good Saturday night in a 104-99 win over the Knicks at Madison Square Garden.Kevin Knox scored 20 points, and DeAndre Jordan posted a double-double with 10 points and 18 rebounds for the Knicks, who tied a franchise record by losing their 16th straight game.Serge Ibaka had a double-double (15 points and 13 rebounds) for the Raptors, who have the second-best record in the Eastern Conference (41-16) and have won four consecutive games. Danny Green scored 14 points and sank three straight 3-pointers in the fourth for Toronto. Norman Powell also had 14 points, and Kawhi Leonard (11) and Pascal Siakam (10) also scored in double figures.Marc Gasol, playing his first game for the Raptors since he was acquired from the Memphis Grizzlies on Thursday, scored 7 points and pulled down 6 rebounds in 19 minutes. He came off the bench for the first time since his rookie season in 2008-9.Mitchell Robinson scored 15 points, Kadeem Allen added 14 points and Dennis Smith Jr. chipped in with 13 points and 6 assists for the Knicks, who have the worst record in the N.B.A. (10-45) and have dropped 24 of 25 and 29 of their last 31 games.Despite the vast difference in fortunes, the Knicks gave the Raptors all they could handle.After Leonard opened the game with a 3-pointer, the Knicks scored the next 14 points. They also tied the game three times early in the fourth quarter before Robinson’s three-point play gave them an 86-85 lead — their first since a 38-36 advantage with 3:48 left in the second quarter.Lowry responded for the Raptors with his go-ahead 3-pointer. After Jordan missed two free throws, Green hit three 3-pointers during a 9-4 run — interrupted only by two free throws and a layup from Allen — to give Toronto a 97-90 lead with 3:28 left.The Knicks closed to 99-96 on Knox’s 3-pointer with 1:59 left. They had two chances to make it a 1-point game, but Mario Hezonja and Smith each missed jumpers, and the Raptors then made five of their final six free throws.SUPERLATIVES APLENTY The Oklahoma City-Houston game had two 40-point scorers, a tied triple-double record, and a winning rally from a 26-point deficit.Paul George scored 45 points, Russell Westbrook matched the league record with his ninth straight triple-double, and the visiting Thunder overcame the large deficit to beat the Rockets.Westbrook had 21 points, 11 assists and 12 rebounds to match the record streak set by Wilt Chamberlain in 1968. Westbrook has 22 triple-doubles this season and 126 over all.James Harden led Houston with 42 points, reaching 30 points for the 29th straight game — two shy of Chamberlain for the second-longest streak in N.B.A. history, but far behind Chamberlain’s record run of 65 games.(AP)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideKnicks Coach David Fizdale pulled at the edge of his graying beard as he dissected his team’s latest blowout loss. Leading a team that is now 10-42, the worst record in the N.B.A., Fizdale has had to search hard for traces of sunshine.As he answered questions from reporters at a recent postgame news conference, the frames of his trademark glasses looked as broken as the franchise itself. The damaged black frames were held together by a glop of glue; Fizdale had cracked them earlier in the season.It is easy to say now, but with 30 games remaining the Knicks seem to have been lost from the start. They began the season with the youngest roster in the N.B.A., with an average age of less than 24.5 years old. Development became the mantra with Fizdale, who in his first season as the Knicks head coach has frequently referred to his players as “kids.” Inexperience, a revolving-door rotation, and the absence of Kristaps Porzingis — the star forward who has been out injured since February 2018 — compounded the losing.Now, after last week’s trade that sent Porzingis to the Dallas Mavericks ended any hope that he might return to save the season, the Knicks could be in danger of finishing with the worst record in franchise history. The low mark was a 17-65 record during the 2014-15 season. They have lost 13 in a row, 25 of the last 27 and a franchise-record 14 consecutive games at home. Not surprisingly, they were 27th in the league in offensive rating and 28th in defensive rating entering Monday night’s games.Of course, Knicks fans have become inured to the losing — this will be the team’s sixth consecutive season without a winning record. Other than the 2012-13 season, when the Knicks reached the Eastern Conference semifinals, it has been nearly two decades since the team advanced beyond the first round of the playoffs.Newcomers like Kevin Knox, Mitchell Robinson and Allonzo Trier may be the future, but injuries and inconsistency have marred the present. Knox, the 6-foot-9 forward chosen ninth over all in last year’s draft, is one of the youngest players in the league, at 19. In December he earned Eastern Conference Rookie of the Month honors, but his 37.1 shooting percentage needs to improve.The Knicks took a gamble on the 7-foot-1 Robinson when they selected him in the second round of June’s draft, 36th over all. He was the only player in last year’s draft who did not play in college, overseas or in the N.B.A.’s developmental league. Instead, Robinson took a year off from organized basketball after high school to get ready for the draft.Trier, a 6-foot-5 guard, went undrafted after three seasons at Arizona, but his early impressive play led to a two-year, $7 million deal with the Knicks.The Knicks’ front office has been lauded for its savvy picks in last year’s draft and its recent acquisition of reclamation projects. That acumen will be tested in June. The Knicks, who own a first-round draft pick, will have the chance to select an impact player with their winning-by-losing approach.The more they lose, the better their chances are of landing Duke’s Zion Williamson or another highly coveted prospect. Still, it is not a slam dunk — even if the Knicks fail to win 20 games this year. Being the worst team in the N.B.A. used to provide a greater advantage in the draft lottery. Because the league changed the rule to deter teams from tanking, the bottom three teams now share the same 14 percent odds of winning the No. 1 pick. Previously, the worst team held a 25 percent chance.“Obviously, you always want to win. Every game we play we’re trying to win,” Fizdale has said.But what if the Knicks actually did start winning, boosted by the three players acquired in the Porzingis trade with Dallas? The Knicks gained the promising guard Dennis Smith Jr., who was a first-round draft pick in 2017, and the expiring contracts of the veterans DeAndre Jordan and Wesley Matthews, plus two future first-round picks. Porzingis, Tim Hardaway Jr., Courtney Lee and Trey Burke were shipped to the Mavericks.The Knicks’ newcomers knew only a few of the team’s offensive plays before making their debut against Memphis on Sunday, with Smith Jr. and Jordan starting. Both made standout plays early. Smith scored his first basket on a drive into the lane with an up-and-under layup and added another in a fast-break opportunity. Jordan registered a block, followed by an alley-oop dunk off an assist from Smith. All this competent basketball made some Knicks fans nervous, leading to some angst-ridden gallows humor on social media.The Knicks held on for the loss, 96-84.With Smith and Jordan in the starting lineup, the Knicks have continued their season theme of roster roulette. Fizdale has stitched together 57 five-man lineups that have played 10 or more minutes together this season. But of those groups, only five lineups have played 50 or more minutes together.Consider center Enes Kanter, who started 23 games but lost his starting job as the team decided to focus on developing its younger players. He did not go quietly to the end of the bench. “I’ll go out and do my job and help my team win,” he said in late December. “If we’re winning, it’s good. But if we’re losing it’s a problem. If this adjustment is going to get us a win, cool. But if not, there’s a problem.”But lately the most vocal cheer at Madison Square Garden has been, “We want Kanter!” as he sits on the bench. After four consecutive games in which he did not play, Kanter entered the game against Dallas last week, went to his knees and kissed the midcourt Garden logo. He explained later that he wanted to show his love for the fans since it could be one of his final games as a Knick, with the trade deadline looming.In the second quarter against Memphis on Sunday, Fizdale looked down the bench and called for “Dennis,” referring to the newly acquired point guard Dennis Smith Jr. Kanter, however, heard “Enes” and started for the scorer’s table until he was stopped by the assistant coach Keith Smart.“He wanted to run all the way to the scorer’s table, make it a bigger spectacle,” Fizdale said. But the damage, as it is with the Knicks, was already done.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinThe Knicks’ sudden trade sending Kristaps Porzingis, their franchise player, to the Dallas Mavericks last week has raised a swirl of questions about the team’s motivations.Good news: We have answers.Porzingis was abruptly dispatched to Dallas last Thursday, along with Tim Hardaway Jr., Courtney Lee and Trey Burke, for guard Dennis Smith Jr., two future first-round picks and the sizable expiring contracts of DeAndre Jordan and Wes Matthews.Let’s dig into six of the biggest curiosities surrounding the departure of the Knicks’ beloved No. 6.Steve Mills, the Knicks’ president, cited worries that Porzingis was growing detached from the organization as a key factor in the team’s decision to seek out trades for the best big man it has seen since Patrick Ewing.It turns out that the Knicks spent much of January quietly canvassing the league for potential Porzingis deals, according to a person familiar with the talks who was not authorized to discuss them publicly. They tried — unsuccessfully — to trade for untouchables such as Utah’s Donovan Mitchell and Sacramento’s De’Aaron Fox.But the Knicks knew all along that the Mavericks had the wherewithal to meet many of their trade objectives and, just as crucially, that Dallas was generally unfazed by the torn anterior cruciate ligament Porzingis suffered last February.In Smith, Dallas had a recent top-10 pick to offer. The Mavericks also proved willing to give up two future first-round draft picks in a Porzingis deal while absorbing the contracts of Hardaway and Lee. The Knicks were able to shed both of those deals because Dallas had two huge expiring contracts to send back (Jordan and Matthews) and had long been fond of Hardaway despite his defensive deficiencies.Perhaps you are a Smith skeptic. Or just a Knicks skeptic. Those are both understandable positions. But a trade that returns three quality assets and will create the kind of salary-cap space this summer that the Knicks must have to chase Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving in free agency is no salary dump.It is a gamble, true, but it is also an undeniable haul.The Mavericks’ interest in Porzingis has been an open secret to the Knicks for years. One Mavericks official estimated that Dallas approached the Knicks “about a hundred times” before the team ever showed any willingness to discuss trading him.The Knicks, for their part, had expressed interest in Smith all season. The teams, according to two people with knowledge of their talks, also had been discussing a Hardaway-for-Matthews trade for weeks before Jan. 28, which both sides pinpoint as the first date the Knicks were open to discussing a Porzingis blockbuster.The parties, as a result, did not need long to build a trade framework.It certainly did not hurt that the Mavericks made their lone Madison Square Garden appearance of the season two nights later. Knicks General Manager Scott Perry and his Mavericks counterpart, Donnie Nelson, met before the game in a Garden hallway before taking their huddle behind closed doors and summoning Mills.By night’s end, Smith had registered a triple-double in a resounding Dallas victory and the Mavericks were offering to seal the Porzingis deal by handshake, since Mark Cuban, the Dallas owner, was in the building. The Knicks, however, asked for more time.The reason? Porzingis and his brother Janis, the player’s agent, had requested a Thursday morning meeting.When asked at a Monday news conference to address his reported desire to be traded, Porzingis passed.“I would rather just focus on what’s ahead of me than looking back,” Porzingis said.A person with knowledge of the meeting, however, said it was requested by the Porzingis brothers — after they had canceled a similar meeting earlier in January — and that it lasted less than five minutes. Later in the day, according to the person, Janis Porzingis gave the Knicks a list of four teams he and Kristaps had deemed acceptable trade destinations.The Nets and the Los Angeles Clippers were among those four teams, but Dallas was not. The Knicks, meanwhile, were told Porzingis was prepared to leave the team and continue his knee rehabilitation in Spain if he was not moved by Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline.It was not long after receiving the four-team list that the Knicks notified the Mavericks they would do the deal.The Knicks were convinced that no team besides Dallas would take the Hardaway and Lee contracts and package a player of Smith’s caliber with first-round draft picks.The Knicks also were fearful that letting the Dallas offer linger, or engaging other teams in the week leading up to the trade deadline, would enable the Porzingis camp to scare off the Mavericks or other potential suitors by threatening to sign long-term only with teams like the Nets or the Clippers.In a radio interview Monday with 105.3 FM in Dallas, Cuban said, “Shopping a deal is a lot more complicated than it sounds.”Risky as it would be given his uncertain health, Porzingis has the option to play next season for a mere $4.5 million and become an unrestricted free agent in July 2020. The Knicks’ mounting fears that he would exercise that option, or say he was only willing to sign a one-year deal with a player option in Year 2, are largely what convinced team officials they had to pursue trades.But the Mavericks are one of those dice-rolling teams, like Boston, Houston and most recently Oklahoma City when it traded for Paul George, that bet on themselves in these situations. Dallas is already expressing confidence it can get Porzingis’s signature on a five-year, $158 million contract this summer.Porzingis has pre-existing relationships with Dirk Nowitzki and Luka Doncic, the Mavericks’ rising star from Slovenia. And neither Mavericks Coach Rick Carlisle nor Cuban has been bashful about comparing a Doncic/Porzingis partnership to the Nowitzki/Steve Nash duo that was busted up after just six seasons. Nash was allowed to sign with Phoenix in July 2004, after which both Nowitzki and Nash won most valuable player honors separately.“It was my mistake to not keep Dirk and Steve together longer,” Cuban said Monday night. “I won’t make the same mistake with Luka and K.P.”It is simply not possible to answer this today. Not without knowing, for starters, how the Knicks will fare in free agency — and how Porzingis will bounce back from his knee injury.But I can tell you this: In my discussions with rival team executives, I have heard from many more who praise the trade than those who question how much the Knicks received in return.Also: The threat of the Knicks persuading Durant to leave one of the most dominant teams in league history, based on the latest vibes emanating from the Bay Area, has never felt more real to the Warriors themselves.The Knicks have received considerable criticism for smearing Porzingis on his way out. And let’s face it: Believe-it-when-I-see-it scoffing at the notion that the game’s biggest names would be willing to play for the Knicks, when they are still owned and operated by James Dolan, is fully expected given how the last two decades have gone since the Knicks’ trip to the N.B.A. finals in 1999.Yet there is far more to like than dislike about the deal, even if Porzingis becomes everything Dallas dreams he can be. The Knicks move forward with massive financial flexibility and a young core of Smith, Kevin Knox, Allonzo Trier and Frank Ntilikina, as well as seven first-round picks over the next five years — chips they can either build around or offer in trades for someone starry like Anthony Davis.Processing all that should bring Knicks-loving New Yorkers some winter warmth.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellUnhappy with mere tanking, displeased with their success at earning the N.B.A.’s worst record, the Knicks took Kristaps Porzingis, their once-in-a-generation asset, their most, and perhaps only, popular player, and traded him to the Dallas Mavericks on Thursday for potsherds and trinkets.Actually, point of information: Porzingis was not even the center of the transaction. The Knicks tossed him in as a sweetener to persuade the Mavericks to also take the putative shooting guard Tim Hardaway and his frightful contract. It was Steve Mills, the team president, whose feel for failure is bred in the bone, who handed Hardaway that $70.9 million deal two years ago. Now Mills and the rest of the Knicks’ vaunted leadership group have traded Porzingis to get rid of it.Had I been able to reach Mark Cuban, the Mavericks’ owner, for comment on his Porzingis heist, I can only assume he would have dissolved into uncontrollable laughter.We live in a national age of delusion and unapologetic rule-breaking, so perhaps there is a pleasingly nefarious explanation for this trade. If so, Knicks management should cling to it like a barnacle on the hull of a sinking ship. Perhaps the Knicks have successfully tampered with another team’s asset and know that Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving, or both, will sign in the summer now that the franchise has plenty of cap space.But I would put the chances that the Knicks could pull off something that clever and diabolical at 6.82 percent. When in doubt it is wisest to bank on inexplicable incompetence.Porzingis apparently helped set all this off by requesting a trade. As a 7-foot-3 23-year-old coming off a serious knee injury, he represented a conundrum for management. Do you commit this summer to a long-term contract of the sort that would tickle the tummy of Croesus? Let’s assume the Knicks’ crack medical and rehabilitation staff warned that his future looked iffy.If so, why wouldn’t Knicks management dangle Porzingis for a week or more to interested teams and let natural competitive instincts come into play around the league? When healthy, Porzingis is a top 20 player, and that made him a rare asset. Instead, the Knicks traded him posthaste for the aging center DeAndre Jordan and a talented, but raw, point guard, Dennis Smith Jr. The Knicks already have raw point guards, so maybe management succumbed to a collect-them-all fever.All theories and psychological analyses are welcome.I’ve followed the Knicks for decades now, and my sons soon contracted my affliction. Like residents in a smallpox ward we often debate whether we have divined one obscure reason or another for faint hope, which is why I hopped the subway a week ago and went to Barclays Center to watch the Knicks take on the Brooklyn Nets.It was a desultory affair at times, but it did feature a Nets team that is climbing in the standings with surprising speed, in contrast to the Knicks, who are hurtling happily downward. And the Nets played like men returned from a near-death experience, happily surprised to possess a winning record after four losing seasons in the Hades of the N.B.A.To his credit, the Nets’ general manager, Sean Marks, has executed a smart rebuild with a fishmonger’s eye for plucking useful talent out of the discard pool. The Nets play a swarming defense with a collective bounce, and their wait-who-is-that-guy no-names are long on desire and short on distorting egos. It was possible to daydream that if only they could sign a Durant or a Kawhi Leonard as a free agent, the Nets could be a genuine terror in the Eastern Conference.The Knicks offer terror of a different sort. They decided this season to double down on what they have done instinctually for so many years and devote their energies to pure losing. They are superb at it. Entering Friday’s game against Boston, their record stood at 10-40, which assures them a high draft pick in June.The modern N.B.A. is an upstairs-downstairs league and runs a two-tier competition: The upstairs version is staged by the top 10 or so teams and is all about winning and praying that your team will not face the Golden State Warriors until late in the playoffs, at which point you will be excused for exiting quickly and feet first.The downstairs version involves a half-dozen teams, and the point is to become the worst of the worst and pray you can draft a young stud who will turn around your franchise. The worst-run teams return year after year to this brackish well. This is the game at which the Knicks currently excel.And there is indeed much unlovely about these Knicks. Their defense occupies a netherworld between theoretical and clueless. Their now-traded shooting guard, Hardaway, appeared to have had his conscience surgically removed and would shoot anywhere at any time and none too successfully.And yet, and yet, I thought these Knicks offered a rough hope. They have the youngest team in the league, a group of foals, and a few might even possess lasting talent. Put them together with Porzingis, and something intriguing might emerge.Friends resisted these optimistic blandishments, and I dug that. In James Dolan, the Knicks have an owner who meddles and hires and fires team presidents and coaches like a mad king. In the past 17 seasons, the Knicks finished with a winning record precisely twice. This one will be no better.Still, I felt hope. The new coach, David Fizdale, is a clever basketball man who seemed O.K. with playing dorm father to a collection of teenagers. This week, Fizdale pointed to the Philadelphia 76ers, the Denver Nuggets and, yes, the Nets as young teams that weathered harrowing days and re-emerged in solid shape.“All of these teams went through hell,” Fizdale said. “You got to get steeled up. This league is not going to let you walk in here as a young team and just think you’re going to come out winning.”Not long after those remarks, the Knicks traded Porzingis. My eldest son, Nick, a fierce dead-ender on the question of team loyalties, is now recommending a family summit with a single agenda item: to switch or not to switch to the Nets?This feels almost as inconceivable as trading a 23-year-old star-in-the-making for potsherds.Mission accomplished all around.Email: powellm@nytimes.comAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Kennard scored 27 points off the bench and the postseason-bound Detroit Pistons closed out their regular season finale by walloping the host New York Knicks 115-89 on Wednesday.The Pistons (41-41) qualified for the Eastern Conference playoffs for just the second time since the 2009-10 season. They were swept by Cleveland in the opening round of the 2015-16 playoffs.Detroit will be the No. 8 seed and face top-seeded Milwaukee in the first round.Kennard's point total was one shy of his career high. Reggie Jackson had 21 points and Andre Drummond supplied 20 points and 18 rebounds for Detroit. Wayne Ellington tossed in 12 points, all on 3-point makes.Heat 113, Nets 94Dwyane Wade ended his storied career with a triple-double of 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists as visiting Miami was dealt a loss to Brooklyn, which clinched sixth place in the Eastern Conference.The Nets honored Wade with a video tribute in pregame introductions by highlighting some of his notable shots against them over the course of a 16-year career while the text on the screen read "Thanks for the Memories."With longtime friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony sitting courtside, Wade recorded his fifth career triple-double in his 1,054th regular-season game since entering the league as the fifth overall pick out of Marquette in 2003.Spurs 105, Mavericks 94LaMarcus Aldridge poured in 34 points and totaled 16 rebounds to help propel San Antonio to a resounding win over visiting Dallas in the regular-season finale for both teams.It was also the final game in the 21-year career of Dallas forward Dirk Nowitzki, who led Dallas with 20 points and pulled down 10 rebounds in 31 minutes of play before leaving the court for the final time with 47 seconds remaining.The win was San Antonio's third straight and -- combined with Oklahoma City's win over Milwaukee -- earned the Spurs the seventh seed in the NBA playoffs, where they will face the Denver Nuggets. Dallas, playing the second game of an emotional home-road back-to-back, had a two-game winning streak snapped and they will miss the postseason for the third straight season.Trail Blazers 136, Kings 131Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a season-high 37 points to lift Portland to a come-from-behind victory over visiting Sacramento.Skal Labissiere added 29 points and 15 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who trailed by as many as 28 points in the first half.Jake Layman, Meyers Leonard and Gary Trent Jr. scored 19 points apiece for Portland (53-29), which gained the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference and will face No. 6 Oklahoma City (49-33) in the first round of the playoffs.Nuggets 99, Timberwolves 95Jamal Murray hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 31.5 seconds left, and host Denver scored the final 15 points of the game to beat Minnesota to earn the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference.Nikola Jokic finished with 29 points and 14 rebounds and Murray scored 17 for Denver. The Nuggets (54-28) will play the San Antonio Spurs in the first round of the playoffs.Andrew Wiggins scored 25 points, Gorgui Dieng had 18 points and 11 rebounds and Cameron Reynolds added 19 points off the bench for the short-handed Timberwolves (36-46).Clippers 143, Jazz 137 (OT)With their respective playoff spots locked, Los Angeles and Utah ended their regular seasons in overtime, where the Clippers won to end a three-game losing streak.Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead the Clippers. Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Lou Williams scored 15 off the bench.Utah rookie Grayson Allen scored a career-high 40 points and Georges Niang scored a career-best 24 off the bench.Thunder 127, Bucks 116Dennis Schroder scored 32 points to help Oklahoma City earn the No. 6 seed in the Western Conference with a win at Milwaukee.The Bucks, who had already sealed the top seed in the Eastern Conference coming into the game, sat three starters -- Giannis Antetokounmpo, Eric Bledsoe and Brook Lopez -- to rest them for the playoffs.Milwaukee (60-22) will start the playoffs against the eighth-seeded Detroit Pistons (41-41). The Thunder (49-33) will open the playoffs against the third-seeded Portland Trail Blazers (53-29).Pacers 135, Hawks 134Edmond Sumner made three free throws with 0.3 seconds remaining to lift Indiana to a road win over Atlanta in the final regular-season game for both teams.Atlanta finished the season with a 29-53 record while Indiana (48-34) heads into the playoffs winners of only four of its last 13 games.The fifth-place Pacers will oppose the fourth-place Boston Celtics (49-33) in the first round of the Eastern Conference postseason.Magic 122, Hornets 114Terrence Ross came off the bench to score a season-high 35 points, and playoff-bound Orlando ended Charlotte's season.Ross scored 19 of his points in the first half, when the Magic led by as many as 13. He finished 12 of 19 from the field and 6 of 10 from 3-point range. Ross' performance overshadowed a 43-point explosion by Charlotte's Kemba Walker in the defeat.The Magic (42-40) remained the No. 7 seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs with the victory, and will face second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs.Grizzlies 132, Warriors 117Memphis dizzied visiting Golden State in the regular-season finale for both teams, parlaying a remarkable 86-point first half into a shocking win.The loss had no bearing on the playoff seeding for the Warriors (57-25). The two-time defending champions enter the postseason as the top seed in the Western Conference and they will open the playoffs against the No. 8 seed, the Los Angeles Clippers, who defeated the Utah Jazz, 143-137, in overtime Wednesday.The win allowed the Grizzlies (33-49) to avoid what would have been a second straight season of at least 50 losses. Rookie Jevon Carter scored 19 of his career-high 32 points in the first half, when the Grizzlies ran off to an 86-68 lead.76ers 125, Bulls 109Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points and Boban Marjanovic added 18 to lift host Philadelphia over Chicago.T.J. McConnell tied his career-high with 18, Zhaire Smith contributed 17 and Greg Monroe had 14 for the Sixers, who completed their regular season with a 51-31 record and the No. 3 playoff seed in the Eastern Conference. The Sixers finished 31-10 at home.The Sixers were extremely short-handed as numerous key players were held out for precautionary reasons as the playoffs are about to begin. All-Star center Joel Embiid, All-Star guard Ben Simmons, guard JJ Redick, forward Jimmy Butler and forward Tobias Harris were all held out.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy David Waldstein and Kelly WhitesideAnother wretched Knicks season has ended, but from its ashes a justifiable optimism is taking root. The Knicks have the money to add two star players this summer, and there is a growing buzz in the N.B.A. that they could acquire Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors and Kyrie Irving of the Boston Celtics, who can be free agents.With one of the top picks in the N.B.A. draft, optimism turns to giddiness. Could next season’s Knicks feature not only Durant and Irving but also Zion Williamson, Duke’s freshman sensation? Or will the Knicks trade their lottery pick for a standout like Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans?Such big names potentially brighten their future, but there’s another name that could make a difference: James L. Dolan.And so it must be asked: Will Dolan, the unpredictable and imperious owner of the team, find a way to mess it all up?Based on his two-decade history as owner, there is reason to wonder. For the second time in five years, the Knicks won only 17 games, a franchise low. This was also the sixth consecutive year the Knicks failed to make the playoffs, and the 12th time in the last 15 years. It’s a staggering level of impotence for a team that spends as much money as it does and has all the inherent advantages of playing in New York City at Madison Square Garden.That enduring failure, combined with Dolan’s public mistreatment of some fans, has led to a growing anger and skepticism in a disaffected, if dedicated, fan base.Watching the team spin its wheels seems part of the appeal or burden: The Knicks have committed more than $800 million in payroll over the last decade — not to mention millions more spent on a revolving door of high-profile executives — and they spend over the league salary cap each year as a matter of course. They also have averaged no fewer than 19,000 fans a game, no matter how bad they were.There are always appealing visiting teams to watch, and some seasons have started strong only to fizzle. But with such a crucial summer on the horizon, the thinking among fans and Knicks observers goes, perhaps not even Dolan can mess up this opportunity to forge a proven winner.“I wish he had a longer fuse when it comes to the fans,” said David Stern, the commissioner of the N.B.A. from 1984 to 2014. “There are some overreactions, but it will have nothing to do with free agency or how the team is run. That all falls on Steve Mills and Scott Perry. Him having a short fuse at times will have zero bearing on player signings.”Mills, the team president, has worked with Dolan on and off over the last two decades, and Perry is the general manager. They are the latest group that Dolan has entrusted to run the basketball side of the organization. (Others have included Isiah Thomas, Larry Brown, Donnie Walsh, Mike D’Antoni and Phil Jackson — all highly compensated and most of them successful elsewhere but unable to succeed under Dolan.)Dolan may be seen as the odious, impulsive and vengeful tyrant of the Garden, but Stern said Dolan desperately wanted a championship squad.“Jim has been on a crusade to get the best basketball people around him,” Stern said. “That’s what he thought he had with Phil and Isiah and Donnie, and what he thinks he has now with Steve and Scott.”But even with some of those well-respected men, Dolan was known to interfere in basketball decisions, particularly Walsh’s. Dolan has vowed to cease the meddling, and Mills says he has kept his word.“I keep him informed, but he does not get involved in what we do,” Mills said in a telephone interview last week.Dolan, however, did dictate to Mills which news outlets could be involved in some of Mills’s own news conferences. On two occasions this season, The Daily News, which Dolan and Madison Square Garden accused of being biased against them, was not invited, meaning Mills did not have total authority over everything to do with the Knicks.“Jim has strong opinions about the media,” Mills said, “and how he has been covered by the media and how we’ve been covered by the media. Really, my focus and what I have complete control over, how we build this basketball team — that’s what I lock into.”Dolan declined to be interviewed for this article.Several other executives who have worked closely with Dolan over the years but did not want to be named in order to speak candidly described a complex man layered with contradictory impulses and character traits.He can be irrational but also is fiercely loyal to certain people. He can be socially awkward and quite charitable but also unleash a volcanic temper on employees.He is said to worship his father, Charles, 92, the founder of Cablevision. But while Charles Dolan would carry lists of employees’ names in his pocket to help greet them and ask them about their lives, James Dolan is just as likely to walk past employees with barely a hello, associates said, and berate others in meetings. Many employees at the Garden simply try to keep their distance.Seth Abraham was the chief executive of Madison Square Garden for almost five years, until 2004, when Dolan was directly in charge of the Knicks, the Rangers and the Liberty. The two worked together closely.“He’s got the right mind-set,” Abraham said. “The issue is that he’s a zealot and his passion sometimes overwhelms him and the people who work for him. His passion is hot.”Certainly, some fans and charities have benefited from his generosity, while others have felt the sting of his wrath.Most notably, Dolan had security guards wrestle Charles Oakley, a former Knick and fan favorite, out of the building in 2017, an unpleasant scene that unfolded in front of thousands. And last month he had guards detain and then bar another fan from the building who had called out to him, “Sell the team!”Although Dolan may eventually sell the Knicks and the Rangers (he sold the Liberty), few think he will do so any time soon, especially when the fortunes of the team could be close to changing significantly. The Knicks are valued at $4 billion, the highest in the league, according to Forbes magazine.“Fans probably don’t like him because of the team’s record and because he didn’t engage much with them,” said Enes Kanter, the center who played parts of two seasons with the Knicks until he was released in February and is now on the Portland Trail Blazers, who are in the playoffs. “But if they knew him more directly they would probably like him more.”Kanter said the fans had the right to feel the way they did because New York City is a great city, but its basketball team has struggled historically. “They deserve a good team,” he added.They have not had one — a real good one — in 20 years, and the anger mounts. In fact, fear of a growing dissatisfaction among fans led to the Garden quietly limiting the amount of beer and alcohol that could be purchased at games late this season, perhaps a prudent decision considering the level of frustration in a fan base with little to cheer.Prudent decisions have not always been the norm with the Knicks. This is the organization that Stern once said was “not a model of intelligent management.” That comment came a dozen years ago, toward the end of an ugly time in the history of the organization, when a former Garden executive, Anucha Browne Sanders, sued the Knicks and Thomas for sexual harassment, and won in court.There is also a perception among fans and people in the league that prospective players want no part of the bungling Knicks because the team is mismanaged to a point where winning is nearly impossible. In 2015, the Knicks made offers to LaMarcus Aldridge, Greg Monroe and DeAndre Jordan, who was coming off two very productive seasons at the time, and all three signed elsewhere. The next year, the Knicks could not even get a meeting with Durant.Now the hope is that Durant has changed his mind, perhaps convinced that he and Irving or another top free agent could be the ones to lead the Knicks to their first title since 1973. But with the Dolan wild card, hungry Knicks fans cannot be sure.“He has cultivated an environment where N.B.A. guys don’t want to play there,” said Gary Horn, 57, a lifelong Knicks fan and screenwriter who grew up in New York and now lives in California. “But his grand flaw is that he has deputized people who don’t know how to draft young players.”A few years ago at the Chicago predraft camp, Mills said, players and their agents told him that they did not want to join the Knicks but said the reason was more about the Knicks’ strategy under the former executive Phil Jackson.“It was the organization, style of play, however you want to talk about it,” Mills said.Mills added that he and Perry were working hard to change the perception of the Knicks and that David Fizdale, the coach, was a draw for both players and fans by dint of his magnetic personality.Some fans are ready to believe the circumstances have aligned for a superteam.“If Durant thinks playing for the Knicks is what’s best for his business and branding goals,” Jonathan Macri, a fan and founder of the Knicks Film School, a website dedicated to the team, said, “Dolan’s reputation as an unpleasant, impulsive individual isn’t going to change that.”Kevin Draper contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellSometime in the third quarter, as the Philadelphia 76ers rained down 3-pointers like mortar shots and Ben Simmons, a giant point guard possessed of preternatural passing ability and a bricklayer’s touch, carved through the Nets, a thought occurred:This was not the playoff homecoming of the Nets’ dreams.The Nets tried but never really contended Thursday night. The men from Philadelphia simply had too much talent and too many big bodies on their way to a 2-1 first-round series lead, and that was a shame. Saddled with the worst attendance in the N.B.A. this season, Barclays Center in Brooklyn was packed to the gills with fans waving towels and hooting and yelling. The joint was packed and joyfully rocking.The Nets are a pretty good pro hoops team in a city where terrible often rules the roost. Their coach, Kenny Atkinson, a likable and intelligent basketball lifer, took over a team that was expected to dwell in the cellar and won more games, 42, than it lost, 40, this season.That was in contrast to the disaster masquerading as a basketball team at Madison Square Garden, where the Knicks’ management team crafted a grotesquely bad team that finished 17-65. (Losing no longer impresses because the Knicks have posted losing records in 15 of the last 18 years.) In a sign that God may have a strange sense of humor, those same Knicks are widely rumored to be a favorite to gain the services of the brilliant forward Kevin Durant, who can become a free agent this summer.But enough about that other New York team.After falling into a deep ditch under previous management, the Brooklyn Nets have executed a slow, steady rebuild, instilling discipline and a sense of Nets basketball, which is to say a fluid, slashing style that relies on small forwards and guards bolstered by lean, swift centers who block shots and rebound and run. Their general manager, Sean Marks, a former San Antonio Spurs assistant and executive, has picked up talented role players much as a fishmonger sorts through a barrel and plucks out tasty sea bass.The Nets have a fine quartet of guards and small forwards, D’Angelo Russell and Spencer Dinwiddie, Joe Harris and Caris LeVert, creative players all, who can probe and find seams in defenses and stroke jump shots.So this game on Thursday offered a chance to draw the measure of a Nets team rising more quickly than expected and of a Sixers team that hopes to compete for a championship. On that last point I walked away nursing doubts.The Sixers for six years were an experimental laboratory, their former general manager Sam Hinkie occupying a reputational land between supposed genius and madman. They lost intentionally and insistently, and accumulated top draft picks, not the least the 6-foot-10 point guard Simmons and the splendidly talented big man Joel Embiid. Sixers ownership eventually discarded Hinkie. But that team now is expected to contend, and the current general manager made a series of trades toward that end this season.Yet a week into playoff season, the engine of that 76ers machine is coughing. Embiid has come up with a chronically sore knee. That is a problem for any athlete, much less a 7-foot, 270-pound center. The assumption Thursday night was that he would play, an impression reinforced when Embiid took the court an hour before the game and shot around. He shot fadeaways and spun like a dervish and put up graceful hook shots.Then minutes before tipoff, the 76ers’ coaches shook their heads. Nope, his knee was too sore. Embiid was sitting. That left the big man in a bad mood. Moments before the tip, as teammates walked over to dap him up and slap his back, Embiid could barely look at them or the court.Simmons is no less talented, and perhaps more baffling. He is a brilliant athlete with stunning vision and dribbling ability. When he breaks swiftly into the open court, his passing takes on a sleight-of-hand quality, so quick that you notice the ball only as it lands in the hands of a teammate.Alas, his shooting edges toward disastrous, and his confidence in it is sodden. Rather than put his hand under the ball, he puts it off to the side, his left elbow sticking out like a chicken wing. He practices his shooting before games with often unsightly results. On Thursday evening, he stood in the corner and took pass after pass from an assistant coach and shot and shot. He made, by my count, five baskets in 15 attempts. Then he took 3-point shots from the shoulder of the key, going 1 for 6.You wanted to cover your eyes and suggest that maybe he should stick to layups. Yet by shooting layups and hook shots and dunks, he finished the game with 31 points and 9 assists.He is the best fundamentally unsound player in the N.B.A. And you wonder how this still unformed 22-year-old star and a gimpy-knee center can stumble into the N.B.A. finals.In a strange way, on this night, Embiid’s absence liberated his teammates. They shot 40 percent from 3-point range to the Nets’ 20 percent, and they outrebounded them, too.If the 76ers have a playoff advantage, it may reside with their veteran talent, in particular Tobias Harris, Jimmy Butler and J.J. Redick. During a Nets run late in the third quarter, Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown called a timeout and drew up a play. Then you saw Redick stand up and start talking and pointing. Then Butler leaned in and interjected. Brown fell silent, then nodded in agreement. Fine, he said, we’ll run it differently.As they walked out onto the court after the timeout, Butler and Redick kept talking, resembling two professors discussing a knotty physics problem. “That was pros talking to pros,” Brown said later.The Nets are a young crew, not unduly burdened by egos and attitude. But they are not yet at a pros-talking-to-pros level. They are a promising troupe still in search of a leading man.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Luke Kennard scored 27 points, Reggie Jackson had 21 and Andre Drummond added 20 points and 18 rebounds as the Detroit Pistons locked up the Eastern Conference's final playoff spot with a 115-89 victory over the New York Knicks on Wednesday night.The Pistons will face the top-seeded Milwaukee Bucks in the opening round.Jackson scored 14 points and Drummond had 10 points and seven rebounds in the first quarter as the Pistons never trailed and led by as many as 16 points. Neither Jackson nor Drummond played in the fourth quarter.Wayne Ellington added 12 points for the Pistons, who hadn't made the playoffs since the 2015-16 season, the last time they finished over .500 (44-38). Before, Detroit hadn't made the postseason since 2008-09.John Jenkins led the Knicks with 16 points, and Kadeem Allen added 13. Henry Ellenson scored 12 points, and Mitchell Robinson and Isaiah Hicks each had 11.NUGGETS 99, TIMBERWOLVES 95DENVER (AP) — Nikola Jokic had 29 points, 14 rebounds and had a key strip in the closing seconds as Denver scored the game's final 15 points and secured the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs.James Murray added 17 for the Nuggets, who are in the postseason for the first time in six years and will face seventh-seeded San Antonio.Gorgui Dieng added 18 points for the Timberwolves backups and rookie Cameron Reynolds scored a career-best 17 points, including a 3-pointer that put Minnesota ahead 95-84 with 4:01 left.TRAIL BLAZERS 136, KINGS 131PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) — Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a career-high 37 points in his first start of the season and Portland secured the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference using just six players in a win over Sacramento.The Blazers have won 14 of 17 games en route to their sixth straight trip to the playoffs. Portland will open the postseason against the Oklahoma City Thunder, who finished in sixth.Marvin Bagley III had 20 points to lead the Kings, who lost their 11th straight game in Portland.CLIPPERS 143, JAZZ 137, OTLOS ANGELES (AP) — Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead seven players in double figures and the Clippers beat Utah in overtime, snapping a three-game skid to close the regular season.Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Patrick Beverley had 14 points in his return from injury.The Clippers' losing streak had already dropped them from the sixth seed to No. 8 in the playoffs, where they'll open against the defending champion Golden State Warriors.Grayson Allen led Utah with a career-high 40 points. The rookie made 13 of 14 free throws and five 3-pointers, but was limited to four points in overtime.The Jazz earned the fifth seed and they'll play No. 4 Houston in the first round.THUNDER 127, BUCKS 116MILWAUKEE (AP) — Russell Westbrook got his 34th triple-double of the season and Oklahoma City beat Milwaukee to lock up the sixth seed in the Western Conference playoffs.Oklahoma City played without injured Paul George, but Westbrook, Jerami Grant and Dennis Schroder led a hot-shooting effort from 3-point range. Westbrook had 15 points, 17 assists and 11 rebounds. He moved into a tie with Magic Johnson for second place on the career triple-double list with 138. Schroder had 32 points, and Grant added a career-best 28.The Bucks had already clinched the No. 1 seed in the Eastern Conference and rested star Giannis Antetokounmpo and some other key players.Khris Middleton scored 21 points in 17 minutes. Tim Frazier scored a career-high 29 points and D.J. Wilson added a career-high 18 while grabbing 17 rebounds. Rookie Bonzie Colson started and scored 21 points.MAGIC 122, HORNETS 114CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) — Kemba Walker scored 43 points in what may be his final game with Charlotte, a loss to Orlando that eliminated the Hornets from playoff contention.Terrence Ross scored a season-high 35 points, Aaron Gordon added 27 and the Magic clinched the seventh seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs and will face the Toronto Raptors in the first round.Aside from Walker's sharp shooting, nothing went right for Charlotte on the final night of the regular season. The loss also means Tony Parker's string of 17 straight playoff appearances is over.NETS 113, HEAT 94NEW YORK (AP) — Dwyane Wade recorded one last triple-double before heading off to retirement, and Brooklyn headed to Philadelphia to take on the 76ers in the first round of the Eastern Conference playoffs after securing the win and the No. 6 seed.Wade had 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in his final NBA game with close friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony leading the cheers from their courtside seats.D'Angelo Russell had 21 points on seven 3-pointers for the Nets, who will face the third-seeded 76ers beginning this weekend in their first postseason appearance since 2015.SPURS 105, MAVERICKS 94SAN ANTONIO (AP) — LaMarcus Aldridge had 34 points and 16 rebounds and San Antonio beat Dallas in Dirk Nowitzki's final game.Nowitzki finished with 20 points and 10 rebounds in the finale of his storied 21-season career — all with the Mavericks.The Spurs head into the Western Conference playoffs as the No. 7 seed.DeMar Derozan finished with 19 points and Derrick White added 14 for the Spurs, who finished with a 49-34 record.GRIZZLIES 132, WARRIORS 117MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) — Jevon Carter scored a career-high 32 points, Justin Holiday added 22 and Memphis beat Golden State in the teams' regular-season finale.Kevin Durant led the Warriors with 21 points, while Klay Thompson finished with 19. Durant and Thompson, who sat out Tuesday's win at New Orleans, were the only Golden State starters to play. Both saw action only in the first half.Golden State entered the game with its playoff position set atop of the Western Conference and sat most of its stars.Carter, a rookie from West Virginia who was averaging 3.7 points, was 10 of 18 from the field and 8 of 12 from 3-point range. Memphis was helped by 21-of-46 shooting from 3-point range.Bruno Caboclo scored 21 points, and Delon Wright recorded his third triple-double in the last four games with 13 points, 11 rebounds and 11 assists.76ERS 125, BULLS 109PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points to lead Philadelphia over Chicago in the regular-season finale for both teams.In preparation for the playoffs, the 76ers rested all five starters, and star center Joel Embiid's status for the opener is in question. The third-seeded Sixers said the 7-foot center's achy left knee may prevent him from playing in the postseason opener this weekend against sixth-seeded Brooklyn.Walt Lemon Jr. scored 20 points to lead the Bulls, who were without Denzel Valentine, Wendell Carter Jr., Chandler Hutchison, Zach LaVine, Lauri Markkanen, Otto Porter Jr. and Kris Dunn.PACERS 135, HAWKS 134ATLANTA (AP) — Edmond Sumner sank three free throws with three-tenths of a second remaining, lifting playoff-bound Indiana past Atlanta.Taurean Prince's 3-pointer with 1.1 seconds remaining gave Atlanta the lead, but DeAndre Bembry's foul on Sumner's last-second 3-point attempt changed the game.TJ Leaf set career highs with 28 points and 10 rebounds for Indiana.Tyreke Evans scored 27 points and Sumner had 22 as the Pacers won despite resting most of their top scorers.Prince and Trae Young each scored 23 points for Atlanta. John Collins scored 20 points and set a career high with 25 rebounds.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAnthony Davis has the Knicks on equal footing with the Los Angeles Lakers as he considers what teams he would be willing to join on a long-term deal after securing a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans, according to two people with knowledge of Davis’s thinking.A trade to any team did not appear imminent Wednesday night, as Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline drew near. But Davis’s recent request to be traded did not include a demand that the move happen before the deadline, according to the people, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the situation publicly.The Knicks have won only one playoff series over the past 18 seasons and their public image has suffered under the ownership of James L. Dolan. But the lure of playing in one of the league’s most attractive markets along with the way the Knicks have positioned themselves to pursue marquee free agents after trading away their franchise player, Kristaps Porzingis, have resonated with Davis, according to the people.The Lakers had been aggressively trying to complete a trade for Davis with the Pelicans before the deadline, because the Boston Celtics — who have been planning a trade run at Davis for months — cannot trade for the All-Star forward while Kyrie Irving is on the Celtics’ roster. (Davis and Irving are both playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions; league rules preclude teams from fielding more than one such player.)The Lakers, however, backed out of trade talks for Davis on Tuesday, according to The Los Angeles Times. ESPN reported Wednesday night that there had been no communication Wednesday between New Orleans General Manager Dell Demps and Lakers President Magic Johnson.The Knicks, who unsuccessfully attempted to interest New Orleans in a Porzingis-headlined trade for Davis last month, could still make offers for Davis up to Thursday’s deadline. But they might fare better after the draft lottery in May, when the Knicks’ position in the June 20 draft is cemented.Thanks in part to the Porzingis trade, the Knicks have amassed seven first-round picks over the next five years to go with a core of promising young players headlined by Kevin Knox and the newly acquired Dennis Smith Jr. Skepticism permeates the Knicks’ fan base as the team appears headed toward its sixth successive non-playoff season, but their trade assets position the Knicks to make a legitimate run at Davis before a big free-agent summer. In the off-season, the Knicks plan to use the significant salary-cap space opened by the Porzingis deal to pursue marquee free agents such as Golden State’s Kevin Durant and Irving in Boston.The Knicks are aware of Davis’s strong interest in playing in New York, according to the people. Either way, though, Davis is leaning toward playing out his current contract and becoming a free agent in July 2020 no matter where he is traded.Since Davis lodged his trade request on Jan. 28, there have been numerous reports that he is not willing to sign a long-term contract with the Celtics, but Sports Illustrated and the Boston Herald were among the news media outlets to report this week that Celtics officials had urged the Pelicans to hold off on trading Davis until the off-season, insisting that Boston could produce an offer that would trump any competing proposals.The Los Angeles Clippers and the Milwaukee Bucks are the other two teams, along with the Lakers and Knicks, with whom Davis has indicated a willingness to sign for the long term.Davis has missed six games with a finger injury but was seeking to play in both of New Orleans’ games this week. The Pelicans, however, opted to hold Davis out while working on trades and have not yet disclosed whether they plan to allow Davis to return to the lineup if he is not traded this week. Davis, according to a person with knowledge of his thinking, would like to play out the season with the Pelicans if no trade materializes before the deadline, despite the fact that the injury risk would be significant for both player and team.The trade saga has rocked both the Pelicans and the Lakers. Los Angeles suffered a 42-point defeat Tuesday night amid the constant speculation about the Lakers trying to package Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma with draft picks to acquire Davis with a goal of pairing one of the game’s best big men with the LeBron James. Both Davis and James are represented by the agent Rich Paul.Despite having missed 14 games through injury, Davis is in the midst of another outstanding season. In 41 games, he is averaging career highs in points (29.3), rebounds (13.3) and assists (4.4) per game and has been selected by Western Conference coaches to appear in the Feb. 17 All-Star Game in Charlotte.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Harvey AratonIf ever there has been an N.B.A. team that was entitled to tank, to deliberately lose for the mathematical calculation of draft lottery luck, it was this season’s Brooklyn Nets as they were on the night of Dec. 5.The latest in a series of harrowing defeats had left them with an 8-18 record, their best-performing player (Caris LeVert) down with a dislocated foot and little reason to believe there was much to strive for until the annual springtime game show known as the draft lottery.For a franchise that had disgorged its most recent lottery picks like T-shirts shot into a crowd, tanking for a high draft pick in an all-out pursuit of Zion Williamson, the supposed one-and-done savior from Duke, seemed like the classic contemporary N.B.A. percentage play.But the Nets, long a franchise nearly impossible to figure, instead won 20 of their next 26 games to become a prime contender for the Adam Silver Integrity Award, if the league’s commissioner, an avowed tsk-tsker on tanking, ever inaugurates it.On my way to Boston recently for an overnight road trip with my son to watch the Nets play the Celtics, I reached Sean Marks, the Nets’ general manager, by phone — on a scouting trip in Slovenia. First question: How the heck did you convince your team, at 8-18, that the remainder of the season would not be a countdown to a 14 percent lottery prayer for the No. 1 pick?“I will tell you that we never had to sit down and say, Hey, guys, we’re going to keep playing hard,” Marks said — “we” meaning he and Coach Kenny Atkinson. “That was player-led, strictly character-driven.”It has been a wishful return on assembling a roster of lower draft picks and reclamation projects, players with “chips on their shoulders,” in the general absence of lottery blue chips.“The never-ending odyssey in this business,” Marks said, “is doing your homework and betting on people, their will and their drive.”Marks is a 43-year-old New Zealander, drafted in 1998 by the Knicks out of the University of California, Berkeley, and traded the next day with good company, Charles Oakley, to Toronto for Marcus Camby. A 6-foot-10 frontcourt reserve, he survived with modest N.B.A. skills for roughly a decade, which explains much of what has happened since his retirement as a player in 2011.“There probably are very few people who had careers as long as Sean had while getting as few minutes, and there’s a good reason for that,” said R.C. Buford, the San Antonio Spurs’ general manager, for whom Marks played for two seasons and apprenticed as an assistant coach and front office executive.“In every role he’s had, he’s been a culture builder,” Buford said.Around the N.B.A., that word — culture — has become like a convenient catchphrase, an opening statement for best intentions.“People use it all the time — they’re going to work hard, play defense, play for the team — but how many actually do?” said P.J. Carlesimo, whose N.B.A. stops in coaching and broadcasting have included San Antonio and Brooklyn. “Because of his time with the Spurs, Sean knows what a good locker room is like.”For contrast, take the Knicks. Their new management team also talks up culture creation, but their stylistic approach in Coach David Fizdale’s first season has been archetypal Y.M.C.A. choose-up. The Knicks’ front office claims operational independence from the team owner, James L. Dolan, but can’t even call an informal news conference without tailoring the guest list to his petty grievances.In San Antonio, where the Holt family has without question left the basketball people alone, Marks was told in no uncertain terms that he could well be a bridge to a future without Gregg Popovich, the 70-year-old head coach and team president.But the blank slate in Brooklyn — where ownership is a largely absentee and ambiguously directed partnership between Mikhail Prokhorov and Joseph Tsai — presented a clean-slate challenge that was more intriguing than daunting.“We knew there were going to be some dark days,” Marks said. “But we all gave up good jobs because we thought we had a chance to build something special.”Before a culture, first came a core. With a flurry of moves deftly manipulating salary cap space, Marks dealt his way into the lower echelons of the draft and emerged with LeVert, a versatile guard, and Jarrett Allen, a mobile, defensive-minded center.Through a trade with the Los Angeles Lakers, he reeled in point guard D’Angelo Russell, the No. 2 pick in the 2015 draft who was recently named an Eastern Conference All-Star. Spencer Dinwiddie, a mercurial guard, parlayed a lifeline from the N.B.A.’s developmental league in December 2016 into a $34 million extension two years later.These Nets had climbed to four games over .500 before hitting a recent rut. A hand injury to Dinwiddie hurt a roster already thinned by the loss of LeVert, who could return soon, and Allen Crabbe.Without marquee talent, the season can be interminably long, winding and bruising. Even in the East, the less forbidding of the two conferences, remaining in playoff position for the Nets will require a collective stamina they may not yet have.If they do qualify, Marks could be a candidate for executive of the year for stocking his roster with hope, against the odds. Is there a more difficult projection in team sports drafting than being outside N.B.A. lottery position?“It’s very different than the other sports,” Buford said. “Even in the top 10 picks, only about 80 percent will find their way into a rotation.”The Spurs’ foundation and selfless identity were built with David Robinson and Tim Duncan, both No. 1 overall picks and special people. But winning five championships requires much more than a hub. Most famously with Manu Ginobili (late second round) and Tony Parker (late first), the Spurs set a standard for locating unheralded gems, particularly from abroad.In the other talent-acquisition game of big-ticket free agency, the Knicks now figure to have two max salary slots next summer after last week’s stunning trade of Kristaps Porzingis to Dallas.As always, they will be selling the sizzle of Manhattan, but if there is a more discerning superstar out there who wants to look deeper, he could begin at the 8-minute 42-second mark of the fourth quarter of the Nets game in Boston on Jan. 28.Atkinson’s team was trailing by only 7 points when he yanked Russell, who had already scored 25, for the remainder of the night.Deploying one rookie (Theo Pinson) with a handful of N.B.A. games on his résumé and another (Mitch Creek) signed to a 10-day contract, the Nets fought hard in defeat. Russell later admitted that Atkinson had benched him for dubious on-court decisions. At the same time the coach was sending his point guard a message, he was also saving him for a more winnable game the next night at home against Chicago.The Nets prevailed over the Bulls as Russell dropped 30. From the not-so-cheap seats, they looked to have a core and a culture — and a clue.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAnthony Davis has informed the New Orleans Pelicans that the Knicks are one of four teams he would be willing to sign with for the long term if he is dealt before Thursday’s trade deadline, according to a person with knowledge of his intentions who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.Davis, one of the league’s superstars in his seventh season in New Orleans, is the biggest name in play in advance of the deadline. He requested to be traded Jan. 28, with the Los Angeles Lakers pushing hardest to get a deal done.The Lakers, along with the Knicks, Los Angeles Clippers and Milwaukee Bucks, are Davis’s preferred trade destinations as he seeks a new home on a team that already has an established star or a path to acquiring multiple stars, according to the person, who was not permitted to discuss the plans publicly.The list of teams, though, is clearly topped by the Lakers. It was first reported Monday by The Athletic and ESPN.It is believed that the list of teams was given to the Pelicans in hopes of increasing the chances Davis is dealt this week. New Orleans has considerable incentive to delay trading Davis until closer to the draft in June, when the Boston Celtics — who are not on the list but have the biggest cache of trade assets for Davis — are eligible to trade for him.While Kyrie Irving is on the Celtics’ roster, Boston cannot trade for Davis since both he and Irving are under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. League rules only allow teams to have one such player on their rosters.ESPN has reported that the Celtics are urging the Pelicans to hold onto Davis until after the season to give them an opportunity to top the Lakers’ best offer, which is expected to feature the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma as well as future first-round draft picks.Even with the Lakers seemingly established as Davis’s most likely landing spot, the Knicks’ presence on the list provides a glimmer of hope in what has been a difficult season, especially over the past week, for Knicks fans. As The Times first reported, the Knicks traded their star forward, Kristaps Porzingis, to the Dallas Mavericks last week in a move that appears largely aimed at clearing cap space to make way for high-profile free agents this summer.Yet with the worst record in the league (10-42), and after years of dysfunction, the Knicks cannot be certain they will pique the interest of any of the notable players expected to be free agents this summer, such as Kevin Durant, Irving and Kawhi Leonard.Trading for Davis is realistically only possible if the Knicks win the draft lottery in May and are then willing to trade the No. 1 overall pick to New Orleans for the draft in June. But the Knicks will hope that Davis’s interest and the mere prospect of trading for him can make them a more attractive destination for the league’s top free agents.Though he has missed New Orleans’ last seven games with a finger injury, Davis is in the midst of another outstanding season. In 41 games, he is averaging career highs in points (29.3), rebounds (13.3) and assists (4.4) per game.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy Marc SteinKristaps Porzingis of the Dallas Mavericks is under investigation by the New York Police Department after a recent accusation that he sexually assaulted a woman last season while he was playing for the Knicks, according to two people familiar with the case who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.Porzingis, who had not been charged as of Saturday night, denied the allegation through a statement from his lawyer Roland G. Riopelle.“We are aware of the complaint that was made against Mr. Porzingis on Friday and unequivocally deny the allegation,” Riopelle said. “We made a formal referral to federal law enforcement on December 20, 2018, based on the accuser’s extortionate demands.“We also alerted the National Basketball Association months ago, and they are aware of the ongoing investigation of the accuser by federal law enforcement. We cannot comment further on an ongoing federal investigation.”The N.B.A. spokesman Mike Bass said in a statement that the league was “aware of the situation,” but he did not elaborate.An N.Y.P.D. spokesman would not confirm or address any complaints against a specific individual, saying, “The N.Y.P.D. takes sexual assault and all rape cases extremely seriously, and urges anyone who has been a victim to file a report so we can perform a comprehensive investigation, and offer support and services to survivors.”Mavericks officials declined to comment, and a spokesman for the Knicks said, “This is Kristaps’s personal matter and not related to the Knicks.”The New York Post first reported Saturday that the woman told the police of the suspected attack from Feb. 7, 2018, on Thursday. Porzingis sustained a torn anterior crucial ligament in his left knee while playing for the Knicks on Feb. 6, 2018. The woman, according to the report, said Porzingis assaulted her hours later at the Sky building in Midtown Manhattan where each had a residence.The woman waited more than a year to come forward, according to The Post, because she had discussed receiving a payment of $68,000 from Porzingis. The Post also reported that the woman is in her 20s and that the N.Y.P.D.’s Special Victims Division has taken over the case.The Mavericks acquired the 7-foot-3 Porzingis from the Knicks in a seven-player trade on Jan. 31, but Porzingis has not played this season for either team while recovering from the knee injury. On the call with the league office to complete the blockbuster deal, Dallas was apprised by the Knicks of a potential “extortion issue” with Porzingis, according to one person familiar with the details of the call who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Porzingis will become a restricted free agent in July and is eligible for a five-year maximum contract worth an estimated $160 million from the Mavericks. Team officials have said repeatedly since acquiring Porzingis that they hope to sign him as quickly as possible.LAKERS SHUT DOWN JAMES LeBron James’s disappointing first season as a Los Angeles Laker ended abruptly when the team announced that it would hold him out of its final six games as a health precaution.“After consulting with our team doctors and medical staff, we have decided to hold LeBron out of games for the remainder of the season,” the Lakers said in a statement distributed on Saturday afternoon.“This decision will allow his groin to fully heal, and is best for the future success of both LeBron and the Lakers.”James thus ends his debut season as a Laker with just 55 of a possible 82 games played. He averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists and moved into fourth in career scoring — ahead of Michael Jordan — with 32,543 points.NETS 110, CELTICS 96 D’Angelo Russell scored 20 of his 29 points in another blistering third quarter against Boston, leading the Nets to a victory over short-handed Boston at Barclays Center.Back from a seven-game trip that lasted more than two weeks, the Nets had a happy homecoming largely because of Russell, who added 10 assists and finished with 25 points after halftime.It was the third straight time he hurt the Celtics in the third quarter, and the Nets really needed this one after going 2-5 on the road and dropping into seventh place in the Eastern Conference. They are a half-game behind Detroit and lead eighth-place Miami by a half-game and Orlando by one.“I told you, man, every one is going to be worth it,” Russell said. “We need it, scratching and clawing for every one of them.”Caris LeVert added 15 points for the Nets, who had dropped the final two games of the trip and still face a tough stretch now that they are back home.“We know that all these games coming up are playoff games,” Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “It’s just how we have to look at it. We’re in it. We can’t shy away from it.” (AP)HEAT 100, KNICKS 92 Dion Waiters scored 28 points and Dwyane Wade added 16 in his last game at Madison Square Garden as Miami beat the Knicks.Wade had back-to-back baskets in Miami’s 8-0 run to start the fourth quarter after the game was tied through three. He shot 6 for 16 and added seven rebounds in 27 minutes off the bench.Wade received a nice hand from the crowd when he walked to the scorer’s table for the first time midway through the first quarter. He then received an ovation when he checked into the game with 4 minutes 37 seconds left in the period.The Knicks honored Wade’s 15-year career with a video tribute with 2:47 remaining in the opening period after a Miami timeout. Wade then drove to the basket for his first points of the night.Wade, a 13-time All-Star, bid farewell to the Garden by planting a kiss on the Knicks logo at center court.“You love playing here,” Wade said, adding: “When I played in college, I got the opportunity to play here, the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic. It was just immediately, that feel, and the feel was there.”Emmanuel Mudiay scored 24 points for the Knicks, who have lost six straight and 14 of 15 over all, and eight in a row at home. (AP)HARDEN SCORES 50 James Harden had 50 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists, scoring 10 straight Houston points down the stretch to help the host Rockets beat Sacramento, 119-108.Harden had his 42nd career triple-double and his third 50-point game in the last six. He made seven 3-pointers to become the ninth player in N.B.A. history to reach 2,000 career baskets from beyond the arc.(AP)A 3-POINTER RECORD, AGAIN The N.B.A. set a record for 3-pointers made for the seventh straight year, after the 25,808th of the season was made Saturday night. The league is on pace for about an 8 percent rise in 3-pointers over last season — and 3s are being made 57 percent more often than they were five years ago. (AP)Ali Watkins, Kelly Whiteside and Zolan Kanno-Youngs contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherCaris LeVert will return to the Brooklyn Nets on Friday, giving the team a boost as it jockeys for playoff position.LeVert has been out since November with a dislocated foot. He had landed awkwardly on a block attempt in a game against the Minnesota Timberwolves and was carried from the court on a stretcher. Given the frightening nature of the injury, and the dark speculation at the time, Nets fans will be happy to see him returning comparatively quickly.LeVert, a wing, had been averaging 18.4 points a game for the team, second only to D’Angelo Russell’s 19.8. It had been a breakthrough year for him after seasons averaging 8 and 12 points a game. His return will come Friday in a home game against the Bulls.The Nets also recently welcomed back shooting guard Allen Crabbe. He played Wednesday night for the first time after a two-month absence with a knee injury. He had 5 points in 13 minutes in a home victory over the Nuggets.But it is not all good news for the Nets. Spencer Dinwiddie, the team’s point guard and third-leading scorer, has missed the last seven games with a thumb injury and could be out for a month or more.The Nets, widely expected to be among the N.B.A. doormats when the season started, are in the heat of the playoff race, currently occupying the sixth seed.“I can’t wait to be a part of that,” LeVert said Thursday. “I’m very excited.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Joel Embiid is not playing for the Philadelphia 76ers on Thursday night in Game 3 against the Brooklyn Nets because of a sore left knee.Embiid warmed up before the game but the 76ers announced shortly before the start that the All-Star center wouldn't be available. Greg Monroe was listed as their starter.Embiid was troubled by the knee late in the regular season and was listed as doubtful for Game 1 of the series. But he played in both games in Philadelphia, collecting a pair of double-doubles.The series is tied 1-1.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperSince moving to Brooklyn in 2012, the Nets have closely aligned their brand with that of Christopher Wallace, the rapper known as the Notorious B.I.G., who grew up a brisk walk from where Barclays Center was later built to host the N.B.A. But a special version of the team’s jersey, with a design inspired by Wallace, is at the center of a copyright violation lawsuit against the Nets, the N.B.A. and Nike filed by the clothing brand Coogi in Manhattan federal court Wednesday.Before the season, the Nets debuted their new Nike-manufactured “City Edition” jerseys, which feature a multicolored striped pattern down the sides that the team called “Brooklyn Camo.” In marketing materials, the team said the jerseys were inspired by Wallace.The “Brooklyn Camo” pattern bears a close resemblance to patterns Coogi has used in its clothing for years, and for which it claims to have over 300 design copyrights. Coogi, a New York-based brand, is also heavily associated with Wallace. The rapper was photographed in Coogi’s clothing, and he referred to the brand in at least two of his songs, including the hit “Hypnotize.”Wallace never rapped about or wore “Brooklyn Camo,” Coogi says in its lawsuit, and the company claims that the jerseys copy its designs, specifically the “Pea Soup” and “Ricotta” patterns. The lawsuit also says one of the defendants purchased advertisements on Google searches for “Coogi Brooklyn Nets” and “Brooklyn Coogi” in order to direct people looking for genuine Coogi products to instead buy Nets merchandise.In a statement to The New York Times, Mike Bass, the N.B.A.’s spokesman, said, “There is no merit whatsoever to their claims.”The Nets and Nike declined to comment on the lawsuit.None of the defendants have filed a response to Coogi’s claim. But attached to Coogi’s lawsuit are letters exchanged between Coogi’s legal counsel and an N.B.A. lawyer, which detail possible legal defenses for the league, team and Nike.In a letter from November, Michael Potenza, the N.B.A.’s intellectual property counsel, wrote to a lawyer for Coogi that the league was “unaware of any design owned by your client to which the Brooklyn Camo is substantially similar.” Potenza explained why the case law on trademark infringement would make it difficult for Coogi to prove its claims, and said the Brooklyn Camo design did not confuse customers. He also said that the N.B.A. obtained consent from the estate of Wallace, who was killed in 1997, to use his name in association with the jersey.In a later letter, Potenza wrote that the Brooklyn Camo design is not similar to Coogi’s designs for a number of reasons: brighter colors, narrower stripes that are horizontal instead vertical, and positioning only on the piping of the jersey, not across the entire top as in Coogi’s designs.On Friday, the first 10,000 fans in attendance for the Nets game against the Charlotte Hornets will receive a Notorious B.I.G. bobblehead.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — The Philadelphia 76ers are listing Joel Embiid as doubtful for Game 4 of their first-round series against the Brooklyn Nets.Embiid has been bothered by a sore left knee, but was able to play in the first two games of the series. He warmed up before Game 3 on Thursday night before it was decided that he couldn't play.Embiid worked out Friday at the 76ers' practice in New York but coach Brett Brown said he didn't know and didn't have a gut feeling about whether his All-Star center would be able to go Saturday afternoon.The 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory without Embiid and lead the series 2-1. Greg Monroe started at center and had nine points and 13 rebounds.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellSometime in the third quarter, as the Philadelphia 76ers rained down 3-pointers like mortar shots and Ben Simmons, a giant point guard possessed of preternatural passing ability and a bricklayer’s touch, carved through the Nets, a thought occurred:This was not the playoff homecoming of the Nets’ dreams.The Nets tried but never really contended Thursday night. The men from Philadelphia simply had too much talent and too many big bodies on their way to a 2-1 first-round series lead, and that was a shame. Saddled with the worst attendance in the N.B.A. this season, Barclays Center in Brooklyn was packed to the gills with fans waving towels and hooting and yelling. The joint was packed and joyfully rocking.The Nets are a pretty good pro hoops team in a city where terrible often rules the roost. Their coach, Kenny Atkinson, a likable and intelligent basketball lifer, took over a team that was expected to dwell in the cellar and won more games, 42, than it lost, 40, this season.That was in contrast to the disaster masquerading as a basketball team at Madison Square Garden, where the Knicks’ management team crafted a grotesquely bad team that finished 17-65. (Losing no longer impresses because the Knicks have posted losing records in 15 of the last 18 years.) In a sign that God may have a strange sense of humor, those same Knicks are widely rumored to be a favorite to gain the services of the brilliant forward Kevin Durant, who can become a free agent this summer.But enough about that other New York team.After falling into a deep ditch under previous management, the Brooklyn Nets have executed a slow, steady rebuild, instilling discipline and a sense of Nets basketball, which is to say a fluid, slashing style that relies on small forwards and guards bolstered by lean, swift centers who block shots and rebound and run. Their general manager, Sean Marks, a former San Antonio Spurs assistant and executive, has picked up talented role players much as a fishmonger sorts through a barrel and plucks out tasty sea bass.The Nets have a fine quartet of guards and small forwards, D’Angelo Russell and Spencer Dinwiddie, Joe Harris and Caris LeVert, creative players all, who can probe and find seams in defenses and stroke jump shots.So this game on Thursday offered a chance to draw the measure of a Nets team rising more quickly than expected and of a Sixers team that hopes to compete for a championship. On that last point I walked away nursing doubts.The Sixers for six years were an experimental laboratory, their former general manager Sam Hinkie occupying a reputational land between supposed genius and madman. They lost intentionally and insistently, and accumulated top draft picks, not the least the 6-foot-10 point guard Simmons and the splendidly talented big man Joel Embiid. Sixers ownership eventually discarded Hinkie. But that team now is expected to contend, and the current general manager made a series of trades toward that end this season.Yet a week into playoff season, the engine of that 76ers machine is coughing. Embiid has come up with a chronically sore knee. That is a problem for any athlete, much less a 7-foot, 270-pound center. The assumption Thursday night was that he would play, an impression reinforced when Embiid took the court an hour before the game and shot around. He shot fadeaways and spun like a dervish and put up graceful hook shots.Then minutes before tipoff, the 76ers’ coaches shook their heads. Nope, his knee was too sore. Embiid was sitting. That left the big man in a bad mood. Moments before the tip, as teammates walked over to dap him up and slap his back, Embiid could barely look at them or the court.Simmons is no less talented, and perhaps more baffling. He is a brilliant athlete with stunning vision and dribbling ability. When he breaks swiftly into the open court, his passing takes on a sleight-of-hand quality, so quick that you notice the ball only as it lands in the hands of a teammate.Alas, his shooting edges toward disastrous, and his confidence in it is sodden. Rather than put his hand under the ball, he puts it off to the side, his left elbow sticking out like a chicken wing. He practices his shooting before games with often unsightly results. On Thursday evening, he stood in the corner and took pass after pass from an assistant coach and shot and shot. He made, by my count, five baskets in 15 attempts. Then he took 3-point shots from the shoulder of the key, going 1 for 6.You wanted to cover your eyes and suggest that maybe he should stick to layups. Yet by shooting layups and hook shots and dunks, he finished the game with 31 points and 9 assists.He is the best fundamentally unsound player in the N.B.A. And you wonder how this still unformed 22-year-old star and a gimpy-knee center can stumble into the N.B.A. finals.In a strange way, on this night, Embiid’s absence liberated his teammates. They shot 40 percent from 3-point range to the Nets’ 20 percent, and they outrebounded them, too.If the 76ers have a playoff advantage, it may reside with their veteran talent, in particular Tobias Harris, Jimmy Butler and J.J. Redick. During a Nets run late in the third quarter, Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown called a timeout and drew up a play. Then you saw Redick stand up and start talking and pointing. Then Butler leaned in and interjected. Brown fell silent, then nodded in agreement. Fine, he said, we’ll run it differently.As they walked out onto the court after the timeout, Butler and Redick kept talking, resembling two professors discussing a knotty physics problem. “That was pros talking to pros,” Brown said later.The Nets are a young crew, not unduly burdened by egos and attitude. But they are not yet at a pros-talking-to-pros level. They are a promising troupe still in search of a leading man.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — D'Angelo Russell had 25 points and 10 assists, and the Brooklyn Nets beat the short-handed Milwaukee Bucks 133-128 on Saturday to improve their positioning in the Eastern Conference playoff race.Brooklyn (40-40) made 19 3-pointers and placed eight players in double figures. Caris LeVert had 24 points, and Jared Dudley finished with 16.The Nets, who had dropped four of five, moved into sixth place in the East. Orlando also is 40-40, and Detroit is a half-game back with a 39-40 record.Milwaukee played without MVP candidate Giannis Antetokounmpo, who was sidelined by a left calf injury. The Bucks (59-21) clinched the NBA's best record with a road victory against Philadelphia on Thursday night.Eric Bledsoe had 33 points and 11 assists for Milwaukee, and Khris Middleton finished with 24 points.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellUnhappy with mere tanking, displeased with their success at earning the N.B.A.’s worst record, the Knicks took Kristaps Porzingis, their once-in-a-generation asset, their most, and perhaps only, popular player, and traded him to the Dallas Mavericks on Thursday for potsherds and trinkets.Actually, point of information: Porzingis was not even the center of the transaction. The Knicks tossed him in as a sweetener to persuade the Mavericks to also take the putative shooting guard Tim Hardaway and his frightful contract. It was Steve Mills, the team president, whose feel for failure is bred in the bone, who handed Hardaway that $70.9 million deal two years ago. Now Mills and the rest of the Knicks’ vaunted leadership group have traded Porzingis to get rid of it.Had I been able to reach Mark Cuban, the Mavericks’ owner, for comment on his Porzingis heist, I can only assume he would have dissolved into uncontrollable laughter.We live in a national age of delusion and unapologetic rule-breaking, so perhaps there is a pleasingly nefarious explanation for this trade. If so, Knicks management should cling to it like a barnacle on the hull of a sinking ship. Perhaps the Knicks have successfully tampered with another team’s asset and know that Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving, or both, will sign in the summer now that the franchise has plenty of cap space.But I would put the chances that the Knicks could pull off something that clever and diabolical at 6.82 percent. When in doubt it is wisest to bank on inexplicable incompetence.Porzingis apparently helped set all this off by requesting a trade. As a 7-foot-3 23-year-old coming off a serious knee injury, he represented a conundrum for management. Do you commit this summer to a long-term contract of the sort that would tickle the tummy of Croesus? Let’s assume the Knicks’ crack medical and rehabilitation staff warned that his future looked iffy.If so, why wouldn’t Knicks management dangle Porzingis for a week or more to interested teams and let natural competitive instincts come into play around the league? When healthy, Porzingis is a top 20 player, and that made him a rare asset. Instead, the Knicks traded him posthaste for the aging center DeAndre Jordan and a talented, but raw, point guard, Dennis Smith Jr. The Knicks already have raw point guards, so maybe management succumbed to a collect-them-all fever.All theories and psychological analyses are welcome.I’ve followed the Knicks for decades now, and my sons soon contracted my affliction. Like residents in a smallpox ward we often debate whether we have divined one obscure reason or another for faint hope, which is why I hopped the subway a week ago and went to Barclays Center to watch the Knicks take on the Brooklyn Nets.It was a desultory affair at times, but it did feature a Nets team that is climbing in the standings with surprising speed, in contrast to the Knicks, who are hurtling happily downward. And the Nets played like men returned from a near-death experience, happily surprised to possess a winning record after four losing seasons in the Hades of the N.B.A.To his credit, the Nets’ general manager, Sean Marks, has executed a smart rebuild with a fishmonger’s eye for plucking useful talent out of the discard pool. The Nets play a swarming defense with a collective bounce, and their wait-who-is-that-guy no-names are long on desire and short on distorting egos. It was possible to daydream that if only they could sign a Durant or a Kawhi Leonard as a free agent, the Nets could be a genuine terror in the Eastern Conference.The Knicks offer terror of a different sort. They decided this season to double down on what they have done instinctually for so many years and devote their energies to pure losing. They are superb at it. Entering Friday’s game against Boston, their record stood at 10-40, which assures them a high draft pick in June.The modern N.B.A. is an upstairs-downstairs league and runs a two-tier competition: The upstairs version is staged by the top 10 or so teams and is all about winning and praying that your team will not face the Golden State Warriors until late in the playoffs, at which point you will be excused for exiting quickly and feet first.The downstairs version involves a half-dozen teams, and the point is to become the worst of the worst and pray you can draft a young stud who will turn around your franchise. The worst-run teams return year after year to this brackish well. This is the game at which the Knicks currently excel.And there is indeed much unlovely about these Knicks. Their defense occupies a netherworld between theoretical and clueless. Their now-traded shooting guard, Hardaway, appeared to have had his conscience surgically removed and would shoot anywhere at any time and none too successfully.And yet, and yet, I thought these Knicks offered a rough hope. They have the youngest team in the league, a group of foals, and a few might even possess lasting talent. Put them together with Porzingis, and something intriguing might emerge.Friends resisted these optimistic blandishments, and I dug that. In James Dolan, the Knicks have an owner who meddles and hires and fires team presidents and coaches like a mad king. In the past 17 seasons, the Knicks finished with a winning record precisely twice. This one will be no better.Still, I felt hope. The new coach, David Fizdale, is a clever basketball man who seemed O.K. with playing dorm father to a collection of teenagers. This week, Fizdale pointed to the Philadelphia 76ers, the Denver Nuggets and, yes, the Nets as young teams that weathered harrowing days and re-emerged in solid shape.“All of these teams went through hell,” Fizdale said. “You got to get steeled up. This league is not going to let you walk in here as a young team and just think you’re going to come out winning.”Not long after those remarks, the Knicks traded Porzingis. My eldest son, Nick, a fierce dead-ender on the question of team loyalties, is now recommending a family summit with a single agenda item: to switch or not to switch to the Nets?This feels almost as inconceivable as trading a 23-year-old star-in-the-making for potsherds.Mission accomplished all around.Email: powellm@nytimes.comAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSome Brooklyn Nets players are unhappy with the laughing apology given by Philadelphia center Joel Embiid over the elbow he delivered in Game 2, calling it "disrespectful."Embiid was whistled for a Flagrant 1 foul after a vicious elbow that caught the jaw of Brooklyn's Jarrett Allen during the 76ers' victory. Embiid apologized for the elbow during the postgame press conference but broke into laughter with teammate Ben Simmons doing it."We didn't really like that," Nets guard Caris LeVert said Wednesday. "We thought that was kind of disrespectful, especially after the elbow he threw. There's no love lost. It's a playoff series. We expect that."Embiid said Simmons laughed because "I'm not usually humble," an explanation accepted by the Nets' Jared Dudley as Embiid being a "silly guy." However, Dudley didn't full excuse it."I felt a certain type of way for it just because you're laughing and someone could have really gotten hurt," Dudley said. "That's been Embiid's personality, but just because it's your personality doesn't mean it's right. So, for us, you can either get even however you want to do it, but the biggest thing for us to get even is winning Game 3."Game 3 is Thursday night in Brooklyn with the series tied 1-1.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Harvey AratonIf ever there has been an N.B.A. team that was entitled to tank, to deliberately lose for the mathematical calculation of draft lottery luck, it was this season’s Brooklyn Nets as they were on the night of Dec. 5.The latest in a series of harrowing defeats had left them with an 8-18 record, their best-performing player (Caris LeVert) down with a dislocated foot and little reason to believe there was much to strive for until the annual springtime game show known as the draft lottery.For a franchise that had disgorged its most recent lottery picks like T-shirts shot into a crowd, tanking for a high draft pick in an all-out pursuit of Zion Williamson, the supposed one-and-done savior from Duke, seemed like the classic contemporary N.B.A. percentage play.But the Nets, long a franchise nearly impossible to figure, instead won 20 of their next 26 games to become a prime contender for the Adam Silver Integrity Award, if the league’s commissioner, an avowed tsk-tsker on tanking, ever inaugurates it.On my way to Boston recently for an overnight road trip with my son to watch the Nets play the Celtics, I reached Sean Marks, the Nets’ general manager, by phone — on a scouting trip in Slovenia. First question: How the heck did you convince your team, at 8-18, that the remainder of the season would not be a countdown to a 14 percent lottery prayer for the No. 1 pick?“I will tell you that we never had to sit down and say, Hey, guys, we’re going to keep playing hard,” Marks said — “we” meaning he and Coach Kenny Atkinson. “That was player-led, strictly character-driven.”It has been a wishful return on assembling a roster of lower draft picks and reclamation projects, players with “chips on their shoulders,” in the general absence of lottery blue chips.“The never-ending odyssey in this business,” Marks said, “is doing your homework and betting on people, their will and their drive.”Marks is a 43-year-old New Zealander, drafted in 1998 by the Knicks out of the University of California, Berkeley, and traded the next day with good company, Charles Oakley, to Toronto for Marcus Camby. A 6-foot-10 frontcourt reserve, he survived with modest N.B.A. skills for roughly a decade, which explains much of what has happened since his retirement as a player in 2011.“There probably are very few people who had careers as long as Sean had while getting as few minutes, and there’s a good reason for that,” said R.C. Buford, the San Antonio Spurs’ general manager, for whom Marks played for two seasons and apprenticed as an assistant coach and front office executive.“In every role he’s had, he’s been a culture builder,” Buford said.Around the N.B.A., that word — culture — has become like a convenient catchphrase, an opening statement for best intentions.“People use it all the time — they’re going to work hard, play defense, play for the team — but how many actually do?” said P.J. Carlesimo, whose N.B.A. stops in coaching and broadcasting have included San Antonio and Brooklyn. “Because of his time with the Spurs, Sean knows what a good locker room is like.”For contrast, take the Knicks. Their new management team also talks up culture creation, but their stylistic approach in Coach David Fizdale’s first season has been archetypal Y.M.C.A. choose-up. The Knicks’ front office claims operational independence from the team owner, James L. Dolan, but can’t even call an informal news conference without tailoring the guest list to his petty grievances.In San Antonio, where the Holt family has without question left the basketball people alone, Marks was told in no uncertain terms that he could well be a bridge to a future without Gregg Popovich, the 70-year-old head coach and team president.But the blank slate in Brooklyn — where ownership is a largely absentee and ambiguously directed partnership between Mikhail Prokhorov and Joseph Tsai — presented a clean-slate challenge that was more intriguing than daunting.“We knew there were going to be some dark days,” Marks said. “But we all gave up good jobs because we thought we had a chance to build something special.”Before a culture, first came a core. With a flurry of moves deftly manipulating salary cap space, Marks dealt his way into the lower echelons of the draft and emerged with LeVert, a versatile guard, and Jarrett Allen, a mobile, defensive-minded center.Through a trade with the Los Angeles Lakers, he reeled in point guard D’Angelo Russell, the No. 2 pick in the 2015 draft who was recently named an Eastern Conference All-Star. Spencer Dinwiddie, a mercurial guard, parlayed a lifeline from the N.B.A.’s developmental league in December 2016 into a $34 million extension two years later.These Nets had climbed to four games over .500 before hitting a recent rut. A hand injury to Dinwiddie hurt a roster already thinned by the loss of LeVert, who could return soon, and Allen Crabbe.Without marquee talent, the season can be interminably long, winding and bruising. Even in the East, the less forbidding of the two conferences, remaining in playoff position for the Nets will require a collective stamina they may not yet have.If they do qualify, Marks could be a candidate for executive of the year for stocking his roster with hope, against the odds. Is there a more difficult projection in team sports drafting than being outside N.B.A. lottery position?“It’s very different than the other sports,” Buford said. “Even in the top 10 picks, only about 80 percent will find their way into a rotation.”The Spurs’ foundation and selfless identity were built with David Robinson and Tim Duncan, both No. 1 overall picks and special people. But winning five championships requires much more than a hub. Most famously with Manu Ginobili (late second round) and Tony Parker (late first), the Spurs set a standard for locating unheralded gems, particularly from abroad.In the other talent-acquisition game of big-ticket free agency, the Knicks now figure to have two max salary slots next summer after last week’s stunning trade of Kristaps Porzingis to Dallas.As always, they will be selling the sizzle of Manhattan, but if there is a more discerning superstar out there who wants to look deeper, he could begin at the 8-minute 42-second mark of the fourth quarter of the Nets game in Boston on Jan. 28.Atkinson’s team was trailing by only 7 points when he yanked Russell, who had already scored 25, for the remainder of the night.Deploying one rookie (Theo Pinson) with a handful of N.B.A. games on his résumé and another (Mitch Creek) signed to a 10-day contract, the Nets fought hard in defeat. Russell later admitted that Atkinson had benched him for dubious on-court decisions. At the same time the coach was sending his point guard a message, he was also saving him for a more winnable game the next night at home against Chicago.The Nets prevailed over the Bulls as Russell dropped 30. From the not-so-cheap seats, they looked to have a core and a culture — and a clue.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBen Simmons scored a playoff-career-high 31 points and handed out nine assists to lead the visiting Philadelphia 76ers past the Brooklyn Nets 131-115 on Thursday in New York for a 2-1 lead in an Eastern Conference opening-round playoff series.Simmons, whose wayward shooting was the subject of a "Missing" poster outside of Barclays Center pregame, made 11 of 13 attempts from the field and 9 of 11 from the foul line.Tobias Harris also scored a playoff-career-high, adding 29 points to go along with 16 rebounds, and JJ Redick added 26 points for Philadelphia.Sixers center Joel Embiid was scratched before the game due to left knee soreness. Greg Monroe, who signed late in the regular season, received the emergency start in place of Embiid and contributed nine points and 13 boards.Warriors 132, Clippers 105Kevin Durant exploded for 38 points, and Golden State never let up after building an early lead, cruising to a win at Los Angeles to take a 2-1 edge in their Western Conference first-round playoff series.The Warriors, who blew a 31-point, second-half lead in Game 3, ran up 41 first-quarter points, building as much as a 19-point advantage in the first 12 minutes.Stephen Curry, who battled foul trouble most of the night, complemented Durant with 21 points in 20 minutes for the Warriors. Ivica Zubac had a team-high 18 points to go with a game-high 15 rebounds for the Clippers.Spurs 118, Nuggets 108Derrick White poured in a career-high 36 points on 15-of-21 shooting to lift San Antonio to a win over visiting Denver in Game 3 of a Western Conference first-round playoff series.San Antonio, the seventh seed in the West, grabbed a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven series. The Spurs led just 89-87 in the first minute of the fourth quarter before they pulled away, forging a 19-4 run that was capped by a White 3-pointer with 5:57 left that gave San Antonio a 108-91 advantage.DeMar DeRozan added 25 points, 21 of those in the second half, while LaMarcus Aldridge contributed 18 points and 11 rebounds for the Spurs. Nikola Jokic paced Denver with 22 points, and Malik Beasley added 20.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDwyane Wade ended his storied career with a triple-double of 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists Wednesday night as the visiting Miami Heat were dealt a 113-94 loss to the Brooklyn Nets, who clinched sixth place in the Eastern Conference.The Nets honored Wade with a video tribute in pregame introductions by highlighting some of his notable shots against them over the course of a 16-year career while the text on the screen read "Thanks for the Memories."With longtime friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony sitting courtside, Wade recorded his fifth career triple-double in his 1,054th regular-season game since entering the league as the fifth overall pick out of Marquette in 2003.Wade played 36 minutes and received a loud hand from fans each time he touched the ball. He made 10 of 28 shots, and his last points were a 3-pointer with 2:48 remaining.Wade exited the court for the last time with 10 seconds remaining. Before leaving the court, he embraced teammates on the floor, then hugged coach Erik Spoelstra and waved to the crowd.After the final buzzer, Wade exchanged hugs at midcourt with Anthony, James, and Paul and posed with pictures with his longtime friends. He then gave his jersey to Anthony.Appropriately, Wade reached his first triple-double since Jan. 13, 2006, by connecting with longtime teammate Udonis Haslem for a jumper in the final minute of the third quarter.Brooklyn (42-40) secured the sixth seed and will open its first postseason series since 2014-15 this weekend in Philadelphia. The Nets also clinched their first winning season since 2013-14 by going 34-22 over their last 56 games since Dec. 7.D'Angelo Russell, who ended his rookie season by appearing in Kobe Bryant's last game in 2016 with the Los Angeles Lakers, led the Nets with 21 points.After Brooklyn took a 63-47 lead into halftime, Russell hit four three 3-pointers in the first two minutes of the third quarter, including three in a span of 46 seconds, as the Nets extended their lead to 75-50. Brooklyn brought a 92-71 edge into the fourth.Miami opened the fourth on a 13-5 run and was within 97-84 when Wade re-entered the game with 7:20 left.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points and the Toronto Raptors closed their regular season with a 120-100 victory over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Tuesday night.Fred VanVleet scored 16 points, and Chris Boucher had a career-high 15 points and 13 rebounds off the bench for the Raptors, who finished the regular season at 58-24.Andrew Wiggins and Gorgui Dieng each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves, who played without All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.Toronto went on a 20-5 run over the final 5:16 of the second quarter and led 69-47 at halftime.Boucher scored 11 points in 10 minutes in the second quarter. Boucher's previous career best was the nine points he scored Dec. 28 against the Orlando Magic.The Timberwolves never got closer than 15 points in the second half, and the Raptors led by as many as 32 points in the final two periods.Towns did not play because of knee soreness. Timberwolves coach Ryan Saunders said Towns would travel with the team for Wednesday's season finale in Denver and be a game-time decision.The Raptors set a franchise record with their 26th road victory of the season.GOOD TIMINGThe Raptors were in Minneapolis on Monday night, allowing coach Nick Nurse and his staff to attend Monday night's NCAA title game. Nurse played against Virginia coach Tony Bennett when Nurse was at Northern Iowa and Bennett was at Wisconsin-Green Bay. "I think I held him to 29 points one time," Nurse joked.TIP-INSRaptors: G Kyle Lowry (rest), F/C Serge Ibaka (rest) and G Patrick McCaw (sprained right thumb) did not play. VanVleet started in place of Lowry. . Toronto reached 1,000 made 3-pointers in a season for the first time.Timberwolves: G Jerryd Bayless (right ankle contusion) and F Taj Gibson (strained left calf) did not play. They joined Towns and long-term absentees F Robert Covington (bone bruise on right knee), F Luol Deng (left Achilles soreness), G Derrick Rose (right elbow surgery) and G Jeff Teague (left foot inflammation) in missing the game. . Dieng made his first start since April 12, 2017. . Tyus Jones had his stretch of 129:18 without a turnover snapped.UP NEXTRaptors: Host either Brooklyn Nets or Orlando Magic in Eastern Conference playoffs.Timberwolves: At Denver Nuggets on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFor Dwyane Wade's final NBA game, where else would his so-called Banana Boat Crew members be but on hand to see it?Wade ended his 16-year career Wednesday night when his Miami Heat visited the Brooklyn Nets at the Barclays Center, and among the spectators were his longtime friends and fellow NBA stars LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony.Of course they would be there, James said during the game. James was shut down for several of the Lakers' final games and Paul's Thunder played their final regular-season game Tuesday night. Anthony did not sign with another NBA team after his release from the Rockets this season."Listen, we all started this journey together," James told Fox Sports Southeast. "Obviously CP came into the league a couple years after us, but we have a brotherhood that is just so much more than basketball. CP played last night, we had our last regular-season game last night, and Melo is right here in New York, so we kind of made the plan and made the decision to come up here."The friends often travel together during the summer and picked up the Banana Boat Crew moniker after photos of them riding in one circulated on social media in 2016.James, who won two NBA titles with Wade in Miami, two of the three Wade won altogether, was asked about favorite memories of his friendship with Wade. James said a good answer to that would take a while."I mean, we'd be here all night talking. We'd be here all night talking about the best memories, or the most fond memories I have of D-Wade."The plane rides, the bus rides, the hotels when we get to the city we'd go to the hotel room and just chop it up, the dinners we had on the road, everything we did was always genuine. (There was) always love, and we always wanted the best for one another, no matter the good or the bad."I will say the most founding part was when we lost (to Dallas in 2011). Because, without ‘11, there's no (2013), no (2012 championship) banners hanging up in (AmericanAirlines Arena). That's what made us. That's what made our team."It's been an unbelievable journey for my guy, and I'm happy to be here for the last little part of the road before the train comes to a stop."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe NBA rescinded technical fouls assessed to Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant and Los Angeles Clippers forward JaMychal Green on Friday after reviewing a call made during Thursday night's game.Durant and Green were exchanging words during the third quarter when the double-technical was called, stunning both players.The decision to rescind was announced from the league's @NBAOfficial account on Twitter.The change was good for Durant, as he already received two technicals earlier in the series. An accumulation of seven technicals during the postseason carries an automatic one-game suspension. He had lobbied for the technicals to be rescinded after Thursday's 132-105 victory.--Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, who missed Game 3 of his team's first-round playoff series against the Brooklyn Nets on Thursday night because of left knee soreness, is listed as doubtful for Game 4 on Saturday. The NBA announced his status in its injury report.Embiid's status has digressed from the first three games when he was listed as questionable. He continues to deal with left knee tendinitis, a problem throughout the regular season, when he missed 14 of the Sixers' 24 games after the All-Star break.Despite Embiid's absence in Game 3, the visiting 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory over the host Nets to take a 2-1 lead. Greg Monroe started in Embiid's place and collected nine points on 4-for-13 shooting and grabbed 13 rebounds. Game 4 of the best-of-seven will also be played in Brooklyn before the series shifts to Philadelphia on Tuesday.--The status of Detroit Pistons forward Blake Griffin remains uncertain entering Saturday's Game 3 of the team's Eastern Conference first-round series against the Milwaukee Bucks.Griffin missed the first two games with a left knee injury, and coach Dwane Casey didn't shed any light on whether the six-time All-Star will return on Saturday for the eighth-seeded Pistons, who lost the first two games of the series in Milwaukee by an average of 28 points."Day-to-day. I'm not talking about Blake," Casey told reporters after Friday's practice. "Day-to-day. Same old words. Just like I am on coaching -- day-to-day."--Former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue was scheduled to interview with the Los Angeles Lakers for their head coaching vacancy, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.The Lakers fired coach Luke Walton last week after three seasons and a 98-148 record.Lue, who previously served as an assistant coach for the Boston Celtics, L.A. Clippers and Cavaliers, became head coach in Cleveland during the 2015-16 season after David Blatt was fired.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFor Dwyane Wade's final NBA game, where else would his so-called Banana Boat Crew members be but on hand to see it?Wade ended his 16-year career with a bang Wednesday night, producing his fifth career triple-double as he amassed 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in the Miami Heat's 113-94 loss to the Brooklyn Nets.Sitting courtside to watch Wade in his final NBA game were his longtime friends and fellow NBA stars LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony.Of course they would be there, James said during the game. James was shut down for several of the Lakers' final games and Paul's Houston Rockets played their final regular-season game Tuesday night. Anthony did not sign with another NBA team after his release from the Chicago Bulls this season after he was traded by the Rockets."Listen, we all started this journey together," James told Fox Sports Southeast. "Obviously CP came into the league a couple years after us, but we have a brotherhood that is just so much more than basketball. CP played last night, we had our last regular-season game last night, and Melo is right here in New York, so we kind of made the plan and made the decision to come up here."The friends often travel together during the summer and picked up the Banana Boat Crew moniker after photos of them riding in one circulated on social media in 2016.James, who won two NBA titles with Wade in Miami, two of the three Wade won altogether, was asked about favorite memories of his friendship with Wade. James said a good answer to that would take a while."I mean, we'd be here all night talking. We'd be here all night talking about the best memories, or the most fond memories I have of D-Wade."The plane rides, the bus rides, the hotels when we get to the city we'd go to the hotel room and just chop it up, the dinners we had on the road, everything we did was always genuine. (There was) always love, and we always wanted the best for one another, no matter the good or the bad."I will say the most founding part was when we lost (to Dallas in 2011). Because, without '11, there's no (2013), no (2012 championship) banners hanging up in (AmericanAirlines Arena). That's what made us. That's what made our team."It's been an unbelievable journey for my guy, and I'm happy to be here for the last little part of the road before the train comes to a stop."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPHILADELPHIA — How's this for a blown call: Amir Johnson was busted showing Philadelphia 76ers All-Star teammate Joel Embiid his cellphone on the bench late in a Game 1 playoff loss.Johnson was caught by TV cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone late in the fourth quarter and the Sixers losing by double digits. Johnson showed Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid the device into his warmup pants pocket."I just looked down because he said his daughter was extremely sick and he was checking on her," Embiid said.The Sixers made the easy call and fined Johnson an unspecified amount for conduct detrimental to the team."It's not something that we are about," Sixers coach Brett Brown said.Johnson, who averaged 3.9 points in 51 games, was inactive and apologized for his mistake."I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions," he said. "I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."Embiid scored 22 points and had 15 rebounds and was a late addition to starting lineup because of tendinitis in his left knee that cost him most of the final month of the season.The Nets beat the Sixers 111-102 in Game 1 in a game that was a disaster for the organization before the opening tip.Sixers owner Josh Harris was very noncommittal on Brown's return for a seventh season on the bench if the team did not make a deep run in the playoffs. Harris said Brown was a "great coach" but fell well short of giving him a vote of confidence."We think he's the right leader to take us where we need to go in the playoffs," Harris said. "I'm focused on the Brooklyn Nets."But wait, there were more disasters.The Sixers trailed by 17, missed 22 of 25 3-pointers and played more like the castoffs of the early Process days under Brown than a team expected to contend for an Eastern Conference championship. Ben Simmons only took nine shots and scored nine points. JJ Redick and Tobias Harris continued the starters' malaise with only a combined four baskets and nine points.Simmons also blasted the 20,437 Sixers fans for booing the team for most of the game."If you're going to boo, then stay on that side," he said.Embiid said the voracious booing that was largely absent during the dark days of the Sixers 10-win season was tough to hear."I love the fans. I've never said anything about them. They show us a lot of love," Embiid said. "I understand why they're booing. But the fact that it's after every single miss when shots are not going to fall (every time). I'm fine. I'll play through anything."So to recap, the Sixers lost home-court advantage, got caught using a cellphone on the bench, admonished fans for booing and refused to give the head coach a vote of confidence.And that's a winner in Philly playoff Bingo.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDwyane Wade was hoping to extend his legendary career into at least four postseason games.Instead, Wade's career will end Wednesday night when the Heat visit the playoff-bound Brooklyn Nets, who can clinch the sixth seed in the Eastern Conference.Wade, 37, announced his retirement on Sept 16 before training camp began, and this season has been a farewell tour filled with a few magical moments and some postgame jersey exchanges.Despite the good feelings of celebrating Wade's storied career, which began as the No. 5 overall draft pick in 2003 and includes NBA championships in 2006, 2012 and 2013, the Heat were unable to do enough to reach the postseason this year.Miami was formally eliminated Tuesday night as Wade's career was celebrated in front of home fans for the final time. Wade scored 30 points in his first start of the season in a 122-99 rout of the Philadelphia 76ers, exited to a standing ovation in the final minute and exchanged jerseys with Jimmy Butler."I'm still just amazed, even after all these years," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "I've seen him go into his bag of tricks so many times and just compartmentalize. But I'm truly amazed that he was able to perform like that tonight."Wade's final moments in front of the home fans occurred after the Detroit Pistons (40-41) stormed back from a 22-point deficit to beat the Memphis Grizzlies and eliminate the Heat (39-42).Miami will miss the postseason for the third time in five seasons since LeBron James returned to Cleveland in 2014.The Heat were one game over .500 three times but only reached the .500 mark once since Jan. 27 and were done in by losing four straight before Tuesday.Brooklyn (41-40) will face either third-seeded Philadelphia or second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs. The Nets are even with Orlando but own the head-the-head tiebreaker and would finish sixth with a win or if the Magic lose Wednesday at Charlotte.The Nets are in this position because of what unfolded in a challenging road back-to-back set. After getting a five-point win at Milwaukee on Saturday, Brooklyn led most of the way and celebrated clinching a playoff berth with a 108-96 victory at Indiana on Sunday."To be honest, it is a big moment for us and a big moment for the organization, from where we've come from in the last couple of years, the improvement that we've had individually and collectively," Nets guard Joe Harris said at practice Tuesday. "Just to clinch a playoff spot, it's a big moment for the organization for sure, and we're all very happy. But at the same time, we still have Miami left to finish out the year the right way, and we still want to make some noise in the playoffs and make it competitive."By clinching Sunday, the Nets are in a position to rest players, and two may be out. DeMarre Carroll will sit out due to a sprained right wrist while Harris -- who leads the NBA in 3-point shooting percentage -- is questionable because of a sore right foot.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressINDIANAPOLIS — D'Angelo Russell scored 20 points and Joe Harris added 19 on Sunday, leading the Brooklyn Nets to a 108-96 victory over the Indiana Pacers and back into the NBA playoffs for the first time in four years.The Nets moved into position to clinch when Miami lost in overtime at Toronto earlier in the day. It's also the first time since 2014-15 the Nets have not posted a losing record.Domantas Sabonis finished with 17 points and 12 rebounds to lead the Pacers. Thaddeus Young scored 16 in a game coach Nate McMillan promised to closely monitor the minutes his players logged.And Brooklyn wasted no time in taking full advantage of that opportunity to end the NBA's sixth-longest active playoff drought.The Nets scored the first nine points and forced three turnovers in less than two minutes, an early barrage that forced Indiana to spend most of the game playing catch-up.Twice the Pacers took the lead on 3-pointers, from Myles Turner and Wesley Matthews, but Russell answered the second one with a 9-footer to give Brooklyn a 19-18 lead with 4:19 left in the first quarter.Indiana never led again.Instead, the Nets steadily extended the lead. They were up 52-44 at the half, scored the last seven points of the third quarter to make it 82-69 and used two 3s early in the fourth to build a 95-78 cushion.TIP-INSNets: Also ended a nine-game losing streak in the series and a seven-game losing streak at Indiana to avoid a second straight season sweep. ... Caris LeVert finished with 18 points while Spencer Dinwiddie and Jarrett Allen each scored 12. Dinwiddie had six assists. Allen had eight rebounds. ... Brooklyn was 11 of 36 on 3s, moving within 16 of breaking the franchise record (1,041) set last season. ... The Nets had a 52-33 rebounding advantage including a 17-5 edge in offensive rebounds. ... Russell's streak of four straight games with 25 or more points ended. ... DeMarre Carroll left midway through the third quarter and headed to the locker room with an undisclosed injury. He did not return to the game.Pacers: Have lost five of seven and their last two home games to fall to close out the regular season at 29-12 at home. ... Sabonis recorded his 30th double-double of the season. ... Bojan Bogdanovic had 13 points, while Cory Joseph added 12. ... Myles Turner finished with six points, four rebounds and three blocks before leaving with a sore right ankle midway through the third quarter. He did not return. ... Darren Collison was 2 of 12 from the field and missed all four of his 3-pointers after missing the previous three games with an injured groin. He had four points and six assists.UP NEXTNets: Will celebrate their playoff berth by closing the regular season at home against Miami on Wednesday.Pacers: Can pick up their first season sweep of the Hawks since 2004-05 with a win at Atlanta on Wednesday.__Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday. He compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.--The Lakers, meanwhile, received permission to discuss their opening for head coach with Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams, ESPN reported, citing league sources.The Lakers are focusing on Williams and former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue, and general manager Rob Pelinka plans to speak with each candidate in the near future, league sources told ESPN.After spending the previous two years in the San Antonio Spurs' front office following the death of his wife Ingrid in 2016, Williams got back into coaching as Brett Brown's top assistant with the 76ers.--The 76ers fined veteran center Amir Johnson an undisclosed amount for showing teammate Joel Embiid his cell phone on the bench late in a 111-102 loss to the Brooklyn Nets in Game 1 of their playoff series.TV cameras caught Johnson on the bench in the fourth quarter, when the 76ers were 16 points down and he was scrolling through his phone. After showing Embiid something on his phone, Johnson put it into the pocket of his warm-ups."I apologize for having my phone on the bench in today's game," Johnson said in a statement released hours after the game by the 76ers. "I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions. I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."--Milwaukee Bucks forward Nikola Mirotic is expected to return from a thumb injury to play in Game 1 of the first-round series against the Detroit Pistons on Sunday.Mirotic missed the final 11 games of the regular season after fracturing his left thumb during a March 19 game against the Los Angeles Lakers.Mirotic fully participated in Friday's practice and took part in Saturday's non-contact practice. He had his thumb taped during both workouts.--The Washington Wizards announced they will not make a qualifying offer to free agent forward Devin Robinson after he was apparently arrested late Friday."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend a qualifying offer to him for the 2019-20 season," it read.According to Washington Post reporter Candace Buckner, who covers the Wizards, Robinson was involved in an altercation with Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills at a nightclub.--Toronto Raptors forward OG Anunoby could be sidelined until the Eastern Conference finals, should the team make it that far, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.Anunoby underwent an emergency appendectomy on Thursday.The second-year player, who is a key reserve for the Raptors, scored 7.0 points per game this season with an average of 2.9 rebounds. He played in 67 games this season, starting six of them, a year after he started 62 games as a rookie from Indiana.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHere are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideThe poet and the point guard have never met. But they see the parallels in their crafts — the push-pull between creativity and pragmatism, between daring and safe.Before this season, Mikko Harvey, an award-winning poet long enamored of the playing style of D’Angelo Russell, wondered if the Nets would ever find a place for their new point guard, whose imaginative play can vacillate between the beautiful and the boneheaded.Do you throw the no-look pass for beauty’s sake when a practical pass would do?Do you write poetry or paint portraits when just about any other career is the more prudent choice?“Rooting for D’Angelo seems like a vote for art and a vote for imagination and a vote for whimsy,” Harvey said. If that’s the case, whimsy is winning. At 22, Russell will play in his first N.B.A. All-Star game on Sunday.Harvey began rooting for Russell when they were at Ohio State five years ago — Harvey as a graduate student, Russell as a freshman for the Buckeyes. Harvey fell in love with the artistry of the point guard’s play.Watching Russell is like seeing a skateboarder midair, soaring through a series of dizzying flips and twists, Harvey said. “You hold your breath wondering whether or not he’s going to land it.”When told of the analogy, Russell nodded. “I can relate,” he said. “It’s risk versus reward. I play freely, almost with an edge taking what the defense gives, but also taking what I want. And that’s either a tough shot that goes in or a tough pass that gets through. It can either be a turnover or an air ball.“There’s a balance. I think that’s where my success has come from, finding that balance this season. But for coaches, it can be hair-pulling, turning it over too many times or trying to make a home run pass or shot too many times.”So far, the risk is paying off. Russell has become the leader of a team that has exceeded expectations. At 30-29, the Nets have surpassed last season’s victory total with less than a third of the regular-season schedule remaining.In his fourth season in the league, Russell his found success by staying true to his inner artist while operating within the Nets system. Through 58 games, he has averaged career highs in points (20.3), assists (6.6), field goal percentage (43.6), 3-point field goal percentage (37.2) and free throw percentage (82.4).“There is a creative gene that he has,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “Artists drive you crazy sometimes because they want to keep expanding, and there has to be a discipline. Sometimes, he gets too creative. His biggest strengths can be a weakness, but his creativity and our structure have become a good marriage. The more I’ve gotten to know him, the more I let him be more creative. Sure, I can get upset at times, but I’m going towards giving that kid more freedom.”Though Russell’s crafty plays have outweighed the knuckleheaded ones this season, there are times when Atkinson wants to pull out fistfuls of hair. In October against New Orleans, with the Nets ahead by a point with 7.5 seconds left, Russell glanced left, knowing Caris LeVert was to his right. His no-look pass sailed far beyond LeVert’s reach and out of bounds, and the Pelicans went on to win.“I wasn’t no-looking just to no-look,” Russell said, adding that he miscalculated the speed of the cut. “But I should have been looking.”More recently against Boston, with the Nets behind by 7, Atkinson sat Russell for the final 8 minutes 42 seconds, even though the point guard had scored 25 points in 24 minutes. After Russell loafed on two rebound attempts and turned the ball over twice, Atkinson pulled him for what he called a “teachable moment.”After the loss, Russell accepted responsibility without complaint, a sign of his growth since coming to the Nets.Russell’s leadership skills now are miles from the immaturity that plagued his rookie season with the Los Angeles Lakers, who drafted him as the second overall pick in 2015. That year, he made a secret recording of his teammate Nick Young admitting to cheating on his fiancée at the time, the rapper Iggy Azalea. The video became public, Young and Azalea broke up, and locker room dysfunction followed. After two seasons, the Lakers traded Russell to the Nets.“D’Angelo is an excellent player,” Magic Johnson, the Lakers’ president, told reporters in 2017 after introducing Russell’s replacement, Lonzo Ball. “He has the talent to be an All-Star. We want to thank him for what he did for us. But what I needed was a leader. I needed somebody also that can make the other players better and also that players want to play with.”Russell has become precisely what Johnson desired: an All-Star, a leader and someone who makes those around him better.“He makes it fun to play because he makes game a lot easier,” forward Joe Harris said. “He’s a cerebral player. If someone doesn’t get a touch, he’s thinking about how to get them in rhythm.”On a recent trip, while the rest of the team was napping on the plane, Atkinson tapped Russell on the shoulder and told him that he had been named an All-Star — Russell would be a reserve, replacing the injured Victor Oladipo. Russell held back tears.“Going into the season, I don’t think anyone, myself included, thought I’d be an All-Star,” Russell said. “I feel like what I’ve been through in the league, I’ve learned when you focus and buy into your craft, all of a sudden you look up and good things happen.”And with the good comes something else: pressure.Like most Nets fans, Harvey, the poet, is thrilled with the team’s success but also filled with other-shoe-drop anxiety. As the Nets inch closer to a playoff spot, what if the trap door opens and they fall closer to the cellar? Or what if Russell regresses?“Even when things are going well, I’m so used to them falling apart,” said Harvey, 26, who previously lived in Brooklyn, where he taught creative writing and worked as an editorial fellow at Poets & Writers Magazine.The poet’s fandom left the confines of his imagination last year when in an interview with a Canadian literary blog, he was asked to describe his secret internet obsession. He confessed: “I watch his games, read think pieces about him on the NetsDaily fan website, keep up with his Instagram, etc. He occasionally appears in my dreams.”If finding a balance between the daring play and the restrained one is what Russell has learned this season, Harvey of course sees a parallel to poetry.“It’s not easy to blend his kind of unpredictable energy into a set system,” Harvey said. “And yet that’s one of the beautiful challenges of artmaking: finding ways to innovate within structure. A poem can be wildly inventive even while following an 18th-century rhyme scheme. His creativity really shines when he has a good system to either fall back on or react against — his imagination has become much more coherent.”Harvey relies on an essay, “The Figure a Poem Makes” by Robert Frost, to describe the creative process. It takes hard work to become a great artist, but it also requires something mysterious and intuitive.“Like a piece of ice on a hot stove, the poem must ride on its own melting,” Frost wrote. “A poem may be worked over once it is in being, but may not be worried into being. Its most precious quality will remain its having run itself and carried away the poet with it. Read it a hundred times: It will forever keep its freshness as a petal keeps its fragrance. It can never lose its sense of a meaning that once unfolded by surprise as it went.”When the words are read to Russell, his eyes grow wide. “I went to Robert Frost Middle School,” said Russell, who is from Louisville, Ky. “That’s fascinating. I like the way he did that. I get it.“Just as far as the mental process goes, when you put words in a poem, you have to think how many outcomes the reader will come up with. Like Robert Frost said, it never gets old, you can read it a hundred times and it keeps its freshness. You can take that over to basketball. Your mind can take your game to so many different levels. It totally relates.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCount Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James among those who were stunned by team president Magic Johnson's resignation on Tuesday night. But according to ESPN's Ramona Shelburne on Wednesday, James still stands behind the organization and Lakers owner Jeanie Buss.ESPN also reported that head coach Luke Walton participated in exit meetings with the players on Wednesday. Walton's job security is in jeopardy after the Lakers (37-45) missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season despite the offseason signing of James to a four-year, $154 million deal.James, 34, battled injuries and appeared in a career-low 55 games and averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists per game in 2018-19.--Following his meeting with Walton, James headed to New York, where he, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony watched Dwyane Wade play his final NBA game. The Miami Heat closed out the season against the Brooklyn Nets.After a pregame video tribute to Wade, the retiring superstar went over and hugged each of his three friends. The four have been friends for years, their bond immortalized by a photo of James, Wade and Paul riding a banana boat together while on vacation in 2015. Anthony was not in the picture but was also on vacation with the group.--Boston Celtics guard Marcus Smart has a torn left oblique and could miss the first two rounds of the Eastern Conference playoffs, according to a report from ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski.Smart averaged 8.9 points, 4.0 assists and 2.9 rebounds this season for the Celtics, who will be the fourth seed in the East after posting a 49-33 regular-season record. Boston will open at home this weekend against the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers. The physical guard is noted as one of the NBA's top defenders.Smart sustained the injury in a game against the Orlando Magic on Sunday, and he did not play in Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.--Anthony Davis acknowledged that despite his desire to leave New Orleans, he could begin the 2019-20 season with the Pelicans."I'm under contract still," Davis said during an informal season-ending news conference. "I have a year left. Obviously it's a possibility it could happen. I don't have ill will toward anybody. I know that it's a possibility that next year I could be here as well. So I can't be mad if I'm here next year."Davis said his next step will be to see who emerges as the general manager for the Pelicans. Dell Demps was fired in February after his handling of the Davis situation, and Danny Ferry is the interim general manager.--The Phoenix Suns have hired longtime NBA general manager Jeff Bower as their vice president of operations, Wojnarowski reported.Bower, 57, was general manager of the then-New Orleans Hornets from October 2005 to July 2010, and he also served as the team's head coach for most of the 2009-10 season after the firing of Byron Scott.The Suns have been without a general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.--The Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.Saunders, 32, is the youngest head coach in the league. He took over when Tom Thibodeau was fired in early January and has earned the endorsement of his players, most notably from All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.The Timberwolves were 36-45 entering Wednesday night's season finale at Denver, including a 17-24 mark under Saunders' leadership. Saunders reportedly will receive a three-year deal with a team option on the final season.--The Timberwolves also announced that guard Jeff Teague underwent successful debridement surgery Tuesday to clean out his left ankle. The team had no additional updates as to any recovery timetable.Teague played in 42 games for the Minnesota this season, averaging 12.1 points and a career-best 8.2 assists in 30.1 minutes. The team shut him down for the season in mid-March.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW ORLEANS — The Pelicans have reached an agreement in principle to make former Cleveland Cavaliers general manager David Griffin New Orleans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, three people familiar with the situation said Friday.The people spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because contract negotiations are ongoing and no announcement has been made.Griffin will take over for former Pelicans general manger Dell Demps, who was fired in the middle of his ninth season with the club — a few weeks after All-Star Anthony Davis' trade request in late January.Griffin's agreement to join New Orleans, which was first reported by ESPN, puts him at the center of the club's effort to find the best deal for Davis. Griffin also could decide the fate of Pelicans coach Alvin Gentry, who has two years left on his contract.The 45-year-old Griffin was the Cavaliers' GM from 2014 to 2017, during which LeBron James returned from Miami to Cleveland and the Cavs won an NBA title. The highlights of his tenure included a trade that brought star power forward Kevin Love to the Cavs. But Griffin's contract was not renewed after the 2016-17 season and James joined the Los Angele Lakers in free agency a year later. Griffin also worked in the Phoenix Suns' front office from 1993 until 2009, a stint that overlapped with Gentry's time as both a Suns assistant and head coach.Griffin was among six people interviewed by the Pelicans to replace Demps, including interim general manager Danny Ferry, Golden State assistant GM Larry Harris, Brooklyn Nets assistant GM Trajan Langon, Houston Rockets assistant GM Gersson Rosas and interim Washington president of basketball operations Tommy Sheppard.Now Griffin will attempt to transform a franchise that went 33-49 this season and has slightly better than a 25 percent chance of landing a top four pick in the NBA draft lottery on May 14.Trading Davis also could fetch a high draft choice, if Griffin chooses to go that route.Gentry has a regular-season record of 145-183 with one playoff appearance last season and one playoff series victory — a sweep of Portland before losing in five games to eventual champion Golden State.Although the Pelicans struggled this season, Gentry was commended by his players for his professionalism amid difficult circumstances."He's kind of been the guy who has let us grow," said Pelicans guard Jrue Holiday, who is coming off the best season of his 10-year NBA career. "I know he has for sure let me grow. He's given me responsibility ... and when he saw me succeed in it, he asked for more."Sometimes there's coaches that you kind of feel like they're holding you back as a player and kind of restrict you, but I feel like he kind of just lets you go and figure it out yourself," Holiday said earlier this week. "He's always been like a partner instead of like a dictator, and I feel like for professionals like ourselves and the guys in the locker room, we really respect that."Davis, who averaged 25.9 points, 12 rebounds and 2.4 blocks in 56 games, made his trade demand with 32 games left in the season and wound up missing 17 of those games, sometimes for rest and at other times was listed as out with back spasms, including for the final seven games.When he did play, it was rarely for much more than 20 minutes a game.The Pelicans will have a number of other pressing roster matters as well.Starting forward Julius Randle and starting point guard Elfrid Payton both will be free agents. Randle is coming off of the best season of his career — averaging 21.4 points and 8.7 rebounds. He credited the Pelicans with fostering his development and said he's open to coming back.Payton, who is from the New Orleans area, said playing in his hometown exceeded expectations and that he would like to be back. Payton missed much of the season with injuries, but also put together a historically significant string of five straight triple-doubles this spring.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — Jared Dudley brought a veteran's presence and poise to a tense situation, helping the Brooklyn Nets to a crucial win in their bid for the playoffs.Dudley's offensive rebound set up Joe Harris' go-ahead 3-pointer with 1:24 left in Brooklyn's 133-128 victory over the short-handed Milwaukee Bucks on Saturday.Brooklyn (40-40) made 19 3-pointers and placed eight players in double figures. D'Angelo Russell had 25 points and 10 assists, reserve Caris LeVert scored 24 points and Dudley collected 14 of his season high-tying 16 points in the second half.The Nets, who had dropped four of five, moved into sixth place in the East. Orlando also is 40-40, and Detroit is a half-game back with a 39-40 record.The Nets have tiebreakers with both the Magic and Pistons.Milwaukee played without MVP candidate Giannis Antetokounmpo, who was sidelined by a left calf injury. The Bucks (59-21) clinched the NBA's best record with a road victory against Philadelphia on Thursday night."It was tough, even without Giannis," Dudley said. "I know that helped us. We just got key stops at the very end."I was playing center. They were going small ball. We wanted them to feel a little uncomfortable, having (Brook) Lopez having to guard a little more."Nets coach Kenny Atkinson called Dudley "the X factor" and said his instincts and understanding of the league contributed to Brooklyn's first win in four meetings with Milwaukee this season.Eric Bledsoe had 33 points and 11 assists for Milwaukee, and Khris Middleton finished with 24 points.Bledsoe's two foul shots made it 128-126 Bucks with 2:30 left, but the Nets closed the game with a 7-0 run. Russell made two free throws, Harris drilled his tiebreaking 3 and Russell drove for a basket with 59.1 seconds remaining."It was a room-and-rhythm look," Harris said of his triple. "Sometimes the best opportunity to get a 3 off is on an offensive rebound."Bucks coach Mike Budenholzer said Antetokounmpo was kicked or hit in the calf against the 76ers and understood sitting out could help him get ready for the playoffs next week."There has been a significant amount of success and winning that has helped him be less difficult," Budenholzer said. "I have flashbacks to the first couple games; he was upset every time I took him out of the game. When I think about that to where we are today, it has been great."Brooklyn shot 52% from the field and scored 36 points in the paint on its way to a 66-65 halftime lead. Russell had 18 points on 8-of-10 shooting and LeVert added 14 points on 6-of-7 shooting.Bledsoe, who played a team-high 33 minutes, said the team would love to reach the 60-victory mark."We want to achieve it but at the same time we want to play the right way," Bledsoe said. "I thought we did a great job of doing that tonight."It was a big game for them. So we've just got to move on."TIP-INSNets: Brooklyn finishes the season with games at Indiana on Sunday and home against Miami on Wednesday. ... The Nets' reserves outscored the Bucks' backups, 69-48. "Previously we tried to shorten our rotation," Atkinson said. "And I had a revelation, we need to play 10 guys. We were coming up short and I don't know if it was fatigue. We spread it around a little more and it worked out for us."Bucks: F Ersan Ilyasova broke his nose during Thursday's game but played without a mask and contributed 12 points and seven rebounds in 25 minutes. George Hill had 14 points and Pat Connaughton finished with 13. ... Former Bucks players Sidney Moncrief and Jack Sikma were selected to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame on Saturday. Moncrief, a five-time All-Star and two-time NBA Defensive Player of the Year, spent 10 of his 11 seasons in Milwaukee. He ranks third on the franchise's career scoring list. Sikma played with the Bucks from 1986-91 after spending his first seven seasons with the Seattle SuperSonics.UP NEXTNets: At Indiana on Sunday.Bucks: Host Atlanta on Sunday.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Joel Embiid took off his warmup gear and changed into street clothes, his left knee feeling too sore to play.Even with the All-Star center sitting down, the Philadelphia 76ers were flying high in Game 3.Ben Simmons scored a career playoff-high 31 points, Tobias Harris added 29 points and 16 rebounds and the 76ers shook off the absence of their leading scorer to beat the Brooklyn Nets 131-115 on Thursday night for a 2-1 lead in the first-round series.The 76ers relied on Simmons slashing to the basket, and Harris and JJ Redick shooting from the perimeter."We have the pieces to get games, to complete games and I think everybody in the organization knows that," Simmons said.Simmons was 11 for 13 from the field, repeatedly getting to the rim even with the Nets sagging well off him in hopes he would shoot a jumper. He added nine assists and eventually quieted a crowd that loudly booed him every time he touched the ball early.Harris had his playoff highs in both points and rebounds, and was 6 for 6 from 3-point range. Redick was 5 of 9 behind the arc and finished with 26 points."Listen, I think their big players came to play," Nets coach Kenny Atkinson said. "Ben had a great game, I thought JJ was great, Tobias also hit some big 3s."Embiid warmed up before the game but the 76ers announced shortly before the start that the All-Star center wouldn't be available because of a sore left knee. Greg Monroe started in his place and had nine points and 13 rebounds."Just came in, obviously with Joel down that's a big scoring loss that we had there," Harris said. "So just had to be aggressive from the start."D'Angelo Russell and Caris LeVert each scored 26 points for the Nets, who host Game 4 on Saturday afternoon. They have dropped the last two games after surprising the No. 3 seed in the opener in Philadelphia.Energized by a lively Brooklyn crowd seeing playoff basketball for the first time since 2015 and perhaps by the absence of Embiid, who averaged 22.5 points and 12.5 rebounds in the first two games, the Nets started well but then stalled. They went about 4 1/2 minutes without a basket and Philadelphia took advantage to lead 32-24 after one."When, arguably, their best player sits out, you have to take advantage of that and we just couldn't perform on it," Nets center Jarrett Allen said.The lead quickly went into double digits in the second before LeVert got going. He scored six straight points and had Brooklyn's first 14 of the period to tie it at 38. The 76ers regained control and opened an 11-point lead with about 2 1/2 minutes remaining before halftime, but LeVert had another burst to cut Philadelphia's lead to 65-59 at the break. He finished with 19 points in the period.Redick hit a pair of 3-pointers sandwiched around Harris' three-point play, pushing it to 81-67, and another 3 by Redick had the Sixers leading 97-81 with 1:16 left in the third. But a four-point play by Spencer Dinwiddie highlighted Brooklyn's run of nine straight points to end the period and trim it to 97-90.The Nets cut it to six in the fourth on Russell's 3-pointer, but the 76ers soon pulled away again.It was another poor defensive effort by the Nets, who allowed just 102 points in Game 1 but an average of 138 in the last two games."We didn't do a good enough job of getting stops," guard Joe Harris said. "You can't have three guys go for 30 and expect to win games."Jimmy Butler scored 16 points for the 76ers and backup big man Boban Marjanovic finished with 14 points and eight rebounds.TIP-INS76ers: Simmons was 5 for 5 on free throws when the Nets fouled him intentionally with 3:38 remaining. He missed both, but hit two on the next possession and finished 9 for 11. ... Monroe didn't even make his Sixers debut until April 6.Nets: Brooklyn was 8 for 39 (20.5 from 3-point range. Joe Harris, who led the league in 3-pointer percentage, missed all four of his attempts. ... LeVert's 19 points were the most he scored in any quarter of his career. ... The Nets had won their last three Game 3s.UP NEXTGame 4 is Saturday in Brooklyn.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPHILADELPHIA — Ben Simmons got an earful from the Philly crowd.With the same 76ers fans Simmons put on blast for booing in the playoff opener now going wild in Game 2, Simmons cupped a hand to his right ear just like Allen Iverson's signature move to spur the cheers even louder.And he did it with Iverson rooting on the Sixers from courtside.Simmons had 18 points, 12 assists and 10 rebounds and the Philadelphia 76ers had an answer for the pesky Brooklyn Nets in a 145-123 win to even their Eastern Conference playoff series Monday night."I was just trying to be me," Simmons said.Simmons had a disastrous Game 1 , on the court (nine points) and from a PR perspective after he criticized fans for booing during a game the Sixers were never really in. He backtracked the next day at practice and never gave another 20,591 fans a chance to do anything but roar in approval in Game 2. Simmons flashed the All-Star form that helped lead the Sixers to 51 wins, and was aggressive from tipoff. He used his size and speed to attack the lane and scored 16 points in the half en route to his second career postseason triple-double.The Sixers busted the game open with a 14-0 run to start the second half and then stretched the lead to 20 on a Simmons steal and fastbreak basket. With a packed house standing, Simmons got a massive ovation when he cupped his hand to his right ear just like Iverson did in his prime."I was thinking about the boos from the last game," Simmons said, smiling. "I have a lot of love for this city."Iverson and former Sixers teammate Dikembe Mutombo attended the game and tossed T-shirts into the crowd.Had Mutombo played in this one, the Nets surely would have received one of his signature finger wags."Everybody's got to bring it," Sixers All-Star center Joel Embiid said. "We need everybody."The Sixers got a little something from everybody in this one.The Nets collapsed in the second half, outplayed and overmatched much as expected by pundits and bookmakers (they were 7.5-point Game 2 underdogs). The Sixers scored 51 points on 18 of 25 shooting and made all 11 free throws in the third."We expect a haymaker," Nets coach Kenny Atkinson said before the game. "We know it's coming. They're too good, too talented. too well coached. It's coming. It's going to be how we react."Not well.Embiid shook off another game-time decision to play through tendinitis in his left knee and delivered after a sluggish Game 1. Embiid scored 13 points in the third as the Sixers raced to a 29-point lead."Whenever I'm out there, I kind of forget about the pain and just try and do the right things," Embiid said.On a minutes restriction, Embiid had some unexpected help from popular backup Boban Marjanovic. He scored 14 points in the first half (only Simmons had more with 16) and let the Sixers find a comfort level on offense with Embiid out for long stretches."This is just the path we're on with Joel," coach Brett Brown said. "There is zero doubt he is our crown jewel."Embiid was whistled for a flagrant foul for throwing an elbow at Jarrett Allen late in the half and the Sixers nursing a 65-64 lead."I got him pretty good and I'm sorry about it," Embiid said, laughing at the pseudo apology.Embiid had 23 points and 10 rebounds, and Marjanovic scored 16.Embiid played ball boy and had the crowd laughing when he hopped off the bench to wipe off a basketball.The Sixers mopped the floor with the Nets.The Nets head home for Games 3 and 4 certainly grateful for a split and at least a half of good basketball before the Sixers picked them apart. Spencer Dinwiddie led the Nets with 19 points and D'Angelo Russell had 16."I know the Barclays Center is going to be jumping in there," Russell said. "The buzz around the city is what we needed."TIP-INSNets: C Jared Dudley sat out with tightness in his right calf.76ers: Mutombo, who helped lead the Sixers to the 2001 finals, rang the ceremonial bell. Iverson moved from his courtside seat to a suite to sit with actor Jamie Foxx.PLENTY OF POINTSThe Sixers topped the 141 points scored in a 1967 playoff game against the San Francisco Warriors to set a team franchise record.UP NEXTThe series shifts to Barclays Center for Game 3 Thursday night and Game 4 Saturday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOpening day of the NBA postseason was no time to be home.Not home for the summer. Home for a game.Only the Golden State Warriors managed to win there Saturday in a rough day for the higher seeds. Both No. 2s lost, and the Brooklyn Nets won the game and the crowd in Philadelphia, where home fans turned on the third-seeded 76ers during an ugly performance.The 76ers will try to straighten things out when they host Game 2 on Monday, and the Warriors will try for more smooth sailing against the Clippers at Oracle Arena in the only other game scheduled.The Nets got the surprises started right from the very first game of the postseason when they beat the 76ers 111-102. Things couldn't have gone much worse for the Sixers, who couldn't quiet Brooklyn's guards or their own fans. The booing started early and grew stronger as the game went on, with Philadelphia All-Star Ben Simmons critical of the fans after being held to nine points while counterpart D'Angelo Russell had 26."We know that Game 2 will definitely be a lot harder for us," Nets guard Caris LeVert said. "We're ready for the challenge."Toronto was edged by Orlando, and Denver went down to San Antonio. But the Warriors made sure their home-court advantage didn't go to waste by beating the Clippers 121-104, getting their offense rolling early and keeping it going."Every game is different too," Stephen Curry said, "so who knows what will happen Game 2 and beyond."___Nets at 76ers, Brooklyn leads 1-0. Game 2, 8 p.m. EDT, TNT.NEED TO KNOW: The Nets will be trying for their first 2-0 lead in a series since going up 2-0 against the New York Knicks en route to a first-round sweep in 2004.KEEP AN EYE ON: The benches. Philadelphia may have one of the best starting fives in the NBA, but there's going to be an awful lot of pressure on the starters if the bench gets blown out as badly as in Game 1, when the Nets' reserves had a 59-28 scoring advantage.INJURY UPDATE: Joel Embiid is listed as questionable after he was doubtful on the eve of Game 1 with his sore knee. Nets veterans Ed Davis (sprained right ankle) and Jared Dudley (tight right calf) are being listed as questionable, though Davis said he expected to play after finishing with 12 points and 16 rebounds in the opener.PRESSURE IS ON: Simmons. Maybe he doesn't need to outplay high school teammate Russell, but the 76ers probably can't afford for LeVert (23 points) and Spencer Dinwiddie (18) to outplay him, too.___Clippers at Warriors, Golden State leads 1-0. Game 2, 10:30 p.m. EDT, TNT.NEED TO KNOW: Patrick Beverley and Kevin Durant insisted after their ejections in Game 1 they were just having fun and trash-talking in the heat of the playoffs. Whether those high emotions spill into Game 2 will be something to monitor considering if the two-time defending champion Warriors make a deep run again, Durant already has two technicals with seven bringing on an automatic suspension."Nah, I can control myself," Durant said, unconcerned.The officials heard their share of arguing from both sides."I thought the ejection was too quick, especially being playoff basketball," Clippers guard Lou Williams said. "Everybody knows what Pat brings to the table and the type of competitor that he is. It might have went quick because of the back and forth they had right before that, but I thought it was quick. I think both guys were competing, and that was it."KEEP AN EYE ON: The Warriors blocked 14 shots in Game 1, getting three each by Durant, Klay Thompson and Andre Iguodala. That was their most all season and tied a franchise playoff high also done on April 27, 1989, at Utah in the first round.COUSINS' NEXT CHANCE: DeMarcus Cousins fouled out of his playoff debut after a nine-year wait, so the big man will be looking to bounce back from a disappointing playoff opener in which he had nine points, nine rebounds and four assists. He returned Jan. 18 against the Clippers after a nearly yearlong absence recovering from a torn left Achilles tendon that required surgery while he was with New Orleans."I don't need to say anything to DeMarcus. It was a frustrating night for him, fouling out, a couple tough calls," coach Steve Kerr said. "But it was important for him to get his feet wet and feel the playoffs, feel the energy, and I have no doubt he'll come back and play a lot better in Game 2."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by76ers 131, Nets 115 | Philadelphia leads series, 2-1By Kelly WhitesideBen Simmons played the role of villain with gleeful ease. Every time the Philadelphia guard touched the ball in Thursday’s Game 3 in Brooklyn, hearty boos followed, with each jeer seemingly energizing him.After the Nets’ Jared Dudley air-balled an open 3-pointer in the third quarter, Simmons celebrated with outstretched arms. After a dunk, he hung on the rim so long that the backboard swayed with aftershocks. When Dudley challenged a call, Simmons laughed in the veteran’s face.In the end, Simmons had the last laugh, scoring 31 points as the 76ers won, 131-115, taking a lead of two games to one in the best-of-seven first-round N.B.A. playoff series.With a smirk and plenty of cocksure drives to the basket, Simmons quieted the critics who questioned his shooting ability. He went 11-for-13 from the field and 9-of-11 from the free throw line, while chipping in nine assists.“That was one of Ben’s most dominant games,” said 76ers Coach Brett Brown. “I give Ben a tremendous amount of credit. We needed it all tonight, especially without Joel.”In the absence of Joel Embiid, the team’s starting center who was ruled out about 15 minutes before the game because of knee tendinitis, the 76ers showed that they have plenty of other star power. Tobias Harris, who had struggled in the previous two games, finished with 29 points and J.J. Redick had 26.“We have the pieces to complete games,” Simmons said.Philadelphia controlled the game, though the scrappy Nets fought back time and again until the final minutes. D’Angelo Russell and Caris LeVert tied for the team high with 26 points, but LeVert stood out to Coach Kenny Atkinson. “He was our sole offensive force out there,” Atkinson said.After winning Game 1, the Nets had dreams of a series upset, but after two thorough defeats, Brooklyn’s chances of advancing seem increasingly unlikely.The rivalry between the teams had heated up in Game 2, a 145-123 win for the Sixers, when Embiid violently delivered an elbow to the jaw of Nets center Jarrett Allen in the first half. In Monday’s postgame news conference, as Embiid tried to apologize, he and Simmons broke into laughter. LeVert called the moment “disrespectful.”Before Game 3, Embiid admitted: “I probably should’ve been ejected. I saw the play, and that was a bad play.” The foul was ruled a Flagrant 1; a Flagrant 2 would have resulted in an ejection.“I was trying to be genuine, and I was actually sorry about what I did, and I actually apologized to Jarrett during the game,” Embiid said. “I kept asking him if he was O.K. That was not my intention. I don’t do that type of stuff.”He said he had laughed on the podium because of a comment from Simmons. “It kind of took a wrong turn. But I did apologize. I wasn’t laughing because of how sorry I was, which I am. I’m extremely sorry. That’s not what I meant to do, I was just trying to be aggressive.”Dudley added some heat to things by calling Simmons “average” in half-court situations. Brooklyn fans took it to the next level, hanging a missing-person sign outside Barclays Center with a Simmons mug shot. The sign read: “Missing: Have you seen his jumper?” Along with Simmons’s height and weight, it listed his identifying characteristics as “just average.”Brown acknowledged that while Simmons, the team’s second-year star and the N.B.A.’s reigning Rookie of the Year, tended to shine in transition, he often struggled in the half court.“It’s evolving,” Brown said, pointing out that Simmons is just 22.The boos helped as well.“He feeds off of that, but it’s not that he’s beating his chest,” Brown said. “I think he’s got tremendous inner confidence.”After the game, Simmons took off the black hat and played nice. When asked about his rebuttal to the “average” remark, and about the boos, he shrugged. “I’m not going to worry about it,” he said.As for the Dudley air-ball celebration? Simmons smiled at the question. “I don’t really have energy for all that,” he said. “It’s done.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by76ers 145, Nets 123 | Series tied, 1-1By Kelly WhitesideAfter the Philadelphia 76ers were booed off their home court in the opener of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series, Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson had a feeling that they would punch back hard in Game 2.“We expect a haymaker,” Atkinson said. “They’re too good, too well-coached. How are we going to react to it?” Atkinson said. As it turned out, not very well.Propelled by a 51-point third quarter that tied an N.B.A. playoff record set by the Los Angeles Lakers back in 1962, the 76ers flattened the Nets, 145-123, on Monday night to even their series at a game apiece. The 145 points by the Sixers also set a playoff franchise record; likewise it was the most points the Nets have allowed in a playoff game.It was that kind of night.The Nets had looked strong early in the game, trailing by just a point at halftime — 65-64 — but then came the 51-point onslaught in the third quarter. “I thought we did a good job holding the fort in the first half,” Atkinson said. “The third quarter was the story of the game.”Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown said he thought the 76ers’ defense was the difference in the game, although the final score would suggest otherwise. Still, he cited guard Ben Simmons’s play against Nets star D’Angelo Russell, who was held scoreless in the second half.Simmons finished with 18 points, 10 rebounds and 12 assists after struggling in Game 1. Meanwhile, Joel Embiid had 23 points and 10 points for the Sixers after being limited to 24 minutes in Game 1.In Game 2, he looked more comfortable, bullying Nets center Jarrett Allen with his big body and sharp elbows, though one of those elbows led to him being charged with a flagrant foul.In any case, there was no booing by the Philadelphia fans on Monday. By the fourth quarter, with the game in hand for their team, the stands began to empty. With the series now tied at 1-1, the 76ers head to Brooklyn for games on Thursday and Saturday. And they would seem to have the momentum.Indeed, with their dominating win on Monday, the 76ers distanced themselves from their playoff-opening flop and looked more like a team with the East’s most talented starting lineup — Embiid, Simmons, Jimmy Butler, Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick.Philadelphia also distanced itself from the criticism that erupted when 76ers center Amir Johnson was caught by TV cameras scrolling through his phone late in the fourth quarter of Game 1 with his team trailing. Johnson turned to Embiid on the bench and showed him the message on his phone. Johnson was subsequently fined for “conduct detrimental to the team” and he apologized in a statement.Simmons also faced criticism after the series opener for his comments about the boos that filled Wells Fargo Center as the Nets pulled away. “If you’re going to boo, then stay on that side,” Simmons said. “That’s how I feel. If you’re a Sixers fan and you’re going to boo, stay on that side.”On Monday, those boos were replaced by cheers. And by a lot of Sixers baskets.And for the Nets, it was a humbling experience. Certainly, the third quarter was. “We can’t have another third quarter like we did,” Allen said. “We just let it blow open.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAs the crowd filed out of the Barclays Center in May 2015, there was reason for hope. Though the Nets had just been eliminated by the Atlanta Hawks in the first round of the playoffs, they had overachieved and shown some promise for the future. And Phil Jackson had become the Knicks president the year before, bringing his triangle offense and a coaching résumé that included 11 N.B.A. titles to Manhattan.Little did New York fans know that it would be four dreadful years before playoff basketball would return to the city. It finally will on Thursday night, when the Nets host the Philadelphia 76ers in a series tied at one all.While there has been no playoff basketball in the city in the interim, much has happened in those four years. And for Knicks and Nets fans, not much of it has been good.May 1, 2015 The eighth-seeded Nets fall to the top-seeded Hawks, 111-87. But they take two games in the series, raising optimism. “We were able to secure a playoff spot,” Coach Lionel Hollins says. “Some people will say, ‘Hey, we didn’t deserve it.’ That’s their problem.”June 25 After putting up a 17-65 record, the worst in franchise history and the league’s second worst in 2015, the Knicks have bad luck in the draft lottery, ending up at the No. 4 spot. Nevertheless, their selection, Kristaps Porzingis of Latvia, will pay off, quickly becoming a star and a fan favorite.Oct. 3 Knicks Coach Derek Fisher gets into a physical altercation after being confronted by Matt Barnes of the Memphis Grizzlies at the home of Barnes’s estranged wife. Barnes is suspended for two games.Dec. 30 Cleanthony Early of the Knicks is shot in the knee by masked men and robbed of gold teeth caps after a visit to a strip club.Jan. 10, 2016 The Nets fire Coach Hollins and demote General Manager Billy King with the team at 10-27. “Frankly speaking, I deserve a championship now much more than six years ago,”  owner Mikhail D. Prokhorov says.Feb. 8 The Knicks, 23-31, fire Fisher. “There’s not a whole lot to say,” Jackson says in his first remarks to reporters since the start of training camp.April 13 The Nets finish the season 21-61, the league’s third worst record. But there will be little help on draft day: They traded their top pick to the Celtics in 2014 for a 37-year-old Kevin Garnett and a 36-year-old Paul Pierce, both of whom are gone at this point.The Knicks finish 32-50. That’s a 15-game improvement, but Jackson says, “We’re disappointed about our season.”April 17 The Nets hire Kenny Atkinson, a Hawks assistant, as head coach. “Together, we can do great things,” Prokhorov says.June 2 The Knicks hire Jeff Hornacek as coach, bypassing the interim coach, Kurt Rambis.June 22 The Knicks trade for Derrick Rose, who proclaims them a “superteam.” After a year he will leave for the Cleveland Cavaliers.July 7 The Nets sign Jeremy Lin, perhaps hoping to recapture the Linsanity that took over the Knicks in 2012.July 8 The Knicks sign Joakim Noah for four years and $72 million. This will not work out. Noah will be suspended for 20 games for a drug violation, be sent to the developmental league and get into a shouting match with Hornacek. The Knicks wind up releasing him in 2018 and paying him anyway.Feb. 8, 2017 The Knicks legend Charles Oakley is ejected from Madison Square Garden during a game. The crowd sides with the former player, chanting “Oakley, Oakley.” The Knicks say he behaved abusively, and the owner, James L. Dolan, says that Oakley “may have a problem with alcohol.” Oakley sues, claiming defamation and battery.March 12 Carmelo Anthony gets his 10,000th point as a Knick, becoming the third player to reach that mark with two teams.April 12 The Nets finish 20-62, the worst record in the league. Once again a potentially high draft pick is gone, as part of the Garnett deal. The Knicks are 31-51.June 22 The Nets trade their longtime star Brook Lopez to the Los Angeles Lakers for D’Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov. Russell will become a key player in the team’s resurgence.June 28 The Knicks and Phil Jackson agree to part ways after three years. The Knicks never fully embraced his triangle offense, and Jackson remained wary of the 3-point shot as it became increasingly important in the league. He also could never seem to get rid of Anthony, the team’s aging star who refused to waive a no-trade clause. Jackson also feuded with the player expected to be the team’s future, Porzingis.Sept. 25 A trade is finally worked out for Anthony, who is sent to the Oklahoma City Thunder for Enes Kanter. He gave the Knicks seven seasons of 20-points-a-game play. Jackson was willing “to trade me for a bag of chips,” Anthony says. He also notes that under new management, “They went from asking for peanuts to asking for steak.”Oct. 18 Lin ruptures a knee tendon  in the Nets’ opening game and misses the entire season.Feb. 6, 2018 Porzingis tears the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee and is out for the rest of this season and the next one.April 11 The Nets finish 28-54. Incredibly, for a third straight year they do not have their top pick because of that Garnett deal. (Garnett is by now 41 and has been out of the league two years.) The lost picks turned into Jaylen Brown, a big part of the contending Celtics; Markelle Fultz, a No. 1 overall choice; and Collin Sexton, who averaged 17 points as a rookie with the Cleveland Cavaliers.The Knicks wind up 29-53 and fire Hornacek the next day. David Fizdale will be the new coach.Asked how the Knicks can improve, the superfan Spike Lee can only turn to prayer: “On bended knee I pray above to da basketball gods to deliver us back to da glory years of da Orange and Blue. Amen,” he writes in The New York Times.June 20 The Nets make a trade to get Dwight Howard from the Hornets, but Howard buys his way out of his contract and never plays for them.July 13 The Nets trade Lin to the Hawks, curing the city’s second, significantly milder case of Linsanity.Jan. 31, 2019 The Knicks  send their most popular player, Porzingis, who is still recovering from the torn A.C.L., to the Dallas Mavericks in a blockbuster trade. Two months later it will be revealed that he is under investigation by the New York Police Department after being accused of sexual assault.The Knicks get Dennis Smith Jr. and some expiring contracts, which should open up salary cap space so they can sign some marquee free agents. Assuming that marquee free agents would want to play for the Knicks.March 12 Knicks fans hoping for a change in ownership are disappointed when Dolan proclaims that he will not sell the team, even for $6 billion. Two days before that, he was filmed threatening a fan with banishment from the Garden after the fan had urged him to sell the team.April 10 The Knicks have sunk to the bottom of the league again, finishing 17-65 and tying the franchise-worst mark. The Nets start the season 8-18, but then unexpectedly turn things around behind Russell, Spencer Dinwiddie (picked up from the developmental league in 2016) and Jarrett Allen (a No. 22 pick in 2017). They finish 42-40. Playoff basketball returns to New York. For now.An earlier version of this article misstated the Knicks’ record in the 2014-15 season. They were 17-65, not 17-63.Benjamin Hoffman contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byNets 133, Bucks 128By The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — Jared Dudley brought a veteran’s presence and poise to a tense situation, helping the Nets to a crucial victory in their bid for the playoffs.Dudley’s offensive rebound set up Joe Harris’s go-ahead 3-pointer with 1 minute 24 seconds left in a 133-128 victory against the short-handed Milwaukee Bucks on Saturday.The Nets, who had dropped four of five, moved into a sixth-place tie in the Eastern Conference with Orlando; each team is 40-40. Detroit is a half-game back with a 39-40 record. The Nets have tiebreakers over the Magic and the Pistons. The Nets are ahead of ninth-place Miami by one and a half games.The Nets made 19 3-pointers and placed eight players in double figures. D’Angelo Russell had 25 points and 10 assists, the reserve Caris LeVert scored 24 points, and Dudley had 14 of his 16 points in the second half.Milwaukee was playing without the superstar Giannis Antetokounmpo, who was sidelined by a left calf injury.“It was tough, even without Giannis,” Dudley said, adding, “We just got key stops at the very end.”Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson called Dudley “the X factor” and said that his instincts had contributed to the Nets’ first win in four meetings with Milwaukee this season.Eric Bledsoe had 33 points and 11 assists for the Bucks, and Khris Middleton finished with 24 points.Bledsoe’s two foul shots gave Milwaukee a 128-126 lead with 2:30 left, but the Nets closed the game with a 7-0 run. Russell made two free throws, Harris drilled his tiebreaking 3-pointer, and Russell drove for a basket with 59.1 seconds left.“It was a room-and-rhythm look,” Harris said of his go-ahead shot.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Dwyane Wade was hurting, sitting on the training table trying to get enough treatment to get him on the floor one last time.A couple of hours later, he looked like a guy capable of playing well beyond the final night of his career.Wade had 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in his last NBA game, which the Brooklyn Nets won by beating the Miami Heat 113-94 on Wednesday night to finish 42-40 and clinch the No. 6 seed in the Eastern Conference.With close friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony leading the cheers from their courtside seats, Wade had his fifth career triple-double in three quarters. He fittingly secured it with a pass to Udonis Haslem, his teammate of 15 years who plays sparingly now and made his only start of the season."I was like, I don't know why, but everybody feels like now you've got to go out and score 60 in your last game because Kobe did it," said Wade, wearing a sparkling gold jacket and gold sneakers. "So hopefully I took the bar all the way back down and say let's go get a triple-double, that's easier."A night after scoring 30 points in his final game in Miami, Wade showed one more time that he's walking away with his skills intact.He played 36 minutes, dribbling out the shot clock the final time he had the ball before checking out with 10 seconds remaining. Then it was time for a lengthy postgame celebration on the court with teammates and friends."The man went out with a triple-double. Don't let that go unnoticed. He had a triple-double," All-Star D'Angelo Russell said. "He is a guy that paved the way for a lot of us. He's been with that franchise for that long period of time. He's Mr. Miami."Russell had 21 points on seven 3-pointers for the Nets, who will face the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers beginning this weekend in their first postseason appearance since 2015, one that seemed unlikely when they were 8-18 in December. But they went 34-22 from there for their first winning record since going 44-38 in 2013-14 — when they were knocked out by Wade's Heat in the second round."Special night," Nets coach Kenny Atkinson said. "Pretty amazing season so far."The game mattered only to the Nets, who quickly ended any fears of finishing seventh and having to face the Toronto Raptors in the first round.But that was secondary to a last chance to celebrate Wade, the three-time NBA champion who was ending his 16th and final NBA season.He was loudly cheered from the moment he emerged alone from the tunnel for pregame layups. Fans — egged on at one point by Paul and Anthony — chanted "We want Wade! We want Wade!" when he was on the bench, even though the 37-year-old guard had played a season-high 35 minutes Tuesday and coach Erik Spoelstra warned before the game that it probably wouldn't be that way again.But there was no keeping Wade down for long. It took him a little bit to get going, as Jarrett Allen added Wade to the list of stars whose shots he's blocked this season — a list that included James."I loved seeing CP and Melo over there getting the crowd going to get Dwyane back in there and Dwyane comes from the old-school NBA," Spoelstra said. "That was pre-load management, so we were not load managing him tonight and I was not talking to my sports scientist whether he could go, even though I walked in and saw him on that training table an hour before the game and he did not look fit to go, at all. But he's cut from a different cloth."The Heat hoped the final game would matter, but the Nets and Orlando Magic had clinched spots over the weekend to leave only one spot left coming into the last week. Miami was eliminated from contention for it despite its victory Tuesday."For me, I'm happy with this season," Wade said. "Unfortunately for our organization and our team, we weren't able to put ourselves in a position to win enough games to be in the playoffs, but for what I wanted for this season, I'm happy to say that I completed that."TIP-INSHeat: Haslem finished with 12 points and 11 rebounds. ... Wade passed Elgin Baylor (23,149 points) to move into 29th place on the NBA's career list. He finished with 23,165.Nets: Starters Joe Harris (toe) and DeMarre Carroll (right wrist) sat out, though Atkinson said they would be ready for the playoff opener. ... Shabazz Napier scored 20 points off the bench.THE LAST JERSEYWade has been exchanging jerseys with players after games this season, but there was one missing. Anthony, who helped persuade Wade to return this season, didn't play long this season before parting ways with Houston. So Wade gave his final one to him."I didn't get an opportunity to play against Melo this year and exchange jerseys with him," Wade said. "That was a missing piece out of this whole season, so everything worked out great for him being here, for me having an opportunity to give him my jersey."___UP NEXTHeat: The offseason.Nets: A first-round playoff matchup against the Philadelphia 76ers.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — CJ McCollum likes when games get gritty.The guard scored 33 points as the Portland Trail Blazers took a 2-0 lead in their playoff series against the Oklahoma City Thunder with a 114-94 victory on Tuesday night.Tense at times with plenty of jawing back-and-forth between the teams, the series now heads to Oklahoma City for Game 3 on Friday."I love it, that's what I live for," said McCollum, who missed 10 games late in the regular season because of a knee injury. "Just like playing on the playground."Damian Lillard added 29 points for the third-seeded Blazers, who opened a playoff series with two wins for the first time since the 2014 playoffs, when they beat Houston in six games.Russell Westbrook, who had his ninth career postseason triple-double in Oklahoma City's Game 1 loss, finished with 14 points, nine rebounds and 11 assists. He was pulled with 3:31 with most of his fellow starters after Portland built a 112-91 lead.Westbrook was just 5 of 20 from the field, including 1 for 6 on 3-point attempts. Collectively, the Thunder were 5 of 28 from the perimeter."I've got to play better," Westbrook said. "Tonight, the loss, I'm going to take full responsibility of tonight because the way I played was unacceptable. I'm going to be better."Paul George had 27 points despite lingering questions about his right shoulder, which was covered with kinesiology tape.Portland's victory in Game 1 snapped a 10-game postseason losing streak that included four-game sweeps in the past two seasons — first by the Warriors and then last year by the Pelicans. Lillard had 30 points in the 104-99 win on Sunday.Oklahoma City beat the Blazers in all four meetings during the regular season. The Thunder have been to the playoffs for eight of the last nine seasons, but they haven't gotten past the opening round for the past two.Oklahoma City started with a lot more energy than in Game 1, when it fell behind by 19 points in the first half. When Westbrook hit a 3-pointer in the first quarter, he pounded his chest and the Thunder went on to lead 31-26 at the end of the period.Lillard hit a 3-pointer and was fouled to close the Blazers within 48-43. But the game began to get heated, with Lillard and Westbrook getting into it when Lillard tried to strip the ball. The officials reviewed it for a "hostile act" but concluded there were no fouls on the play. It was chippy for much of the game, and at one point Lillard and Steven Adams stared each other down after Adams set a screen on the All-Star guard."With this team it's physical. It's physical every time we've played them," said Portland's Maurice Harkless, who finished with 14 points. "It's only magnified now — and it's only going to get more physical."Westbrook collected three fouls in the first half and headed early to the bench, as did Portland's Enes Kanter, who was so successful against the Thunder in Game 1. Together the teams had 29 fouls in the opening half and there were 54 for the game.McCollum nailed a 3-pointer off a pass from Lillard at the buzzer to tie the game at 54 going into the break. Then McCollum turned to the crowd and simply nodded."My body feels good," said McCollum, playing in his fourth game since the layoff because of a left knee strain. "Coming off an injury, being able to get into a rhythm and get up and down. Being able to find that rhythm is very important to me."Portland pulled in front on McCollum's jumper and extended it to 69-63 with Lillard's long 3-pointer. Seth Curry had back-to-back 3s to put the Blazers up 85-73 late in the third.The Blazers' hopes for postseason success appeared to take a blow last month when center Jusuf Nurkic was lost for the season with a broken left leg. Nurkic was averaging 15.6 points and 10.4 rebounds when he sustained the gruesome injury during a game against the Brooklyn Nets.Kanter, signed just before the All-Star break after he was waived by the New York Knicks, has started in Nurkic's place. Kanter had 20 points and 18 rebounds in Game 1 but finished with six points and five rebounds on Tuesday.At one point in the first half Kanter got knocked in the hand and X-rays at halftime revealed a contusion. But he said following the game that he'd be fine for Game 3.TIP-INSThunder: Thunder coach Billy Donovan was emphatic before the game: "No injuries, no one out, no game-time decisions." ... It's the first playoff series between the teams since the Thunder moved from Seattle to Oklahoma City.Trail Blazers: Seattle Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson, who just signed a contract extension that makes him the highest paid player in the NFL, was among the fans at the Moda Center, as was Gonzaga coach Mark Few. ... Jake Layman, who did not play in the series opener, came in to start the second quarter.TROUBLE FROM DISTANCEDonovan said he'll take a look at why the Thunder aren't faring well from 3-point range. The team also struggled in Game 1, making just five of 33 attempts."For the most part, I think we got fairly decent looks and we're going to have to take them," Donovan said. "As the ball gets driven downhill, and teams bring help and protect the rim, you just can't force the ball in there and take tough, ill-advised shots. And when the ball gets sprayed back out to the perimeter and guys are open, it's hard to say, 'OK, just drive it right back to the help again and hope they move out of the way.'"UP NEXT: Game 3 is set for Friday night in Oklahoma City.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — After eight straight playoff losses over the past two years, the Portland Trail Blazers finally got a win.Damian Lillard scored 30 points and the third-seeded Blazers opened their series against the No. 6 Oklahoma City Thunder on Sunday with a 104-99 victory."We know how it feels to win again," Lillard said. "Now we can just kind of move on from that and stay focused on this series."Portland was swept by New Orleans last season and the Warriors the year before.Enes Kanter added 20 points and a career playoff-high 18 rebounds for the Blazers, who were making their sixth straight postseason appearance. CJ McCollum added 24 points.Russell Westbrook had 24 points, 10 assists and 10 rebounds for his ninth career postseason triple-double. Paul George, who was a game-time decision because of a sore shoulder, added 26 points and 10 rebounds despite a rough shooting night.Westbrook appeared to hurt his right ankle in the final quarter and grimaced while trying to walk it off. Trainers attended to him on the bench at the next timeout but he returned and his layup closed the gap to 91-87 with just under 4 minutes left.Asked about it afterward, Westbrook said: "We'll see."After trailing by as many as 19 points in the first half, Oklahoma City pulled within as 93-92 on George's 3-pointer with 2:44 left. Lillard answered with a long 3-pointer to keep the Blazers ahead and Al-Farouq Aminu made free throws to extend Portland's lead to 98-92.George made a 3-pointer with 8.2 seconds remaining to get the Thunder within 100-97 but Portland hung on."We knew it was going to be a fight all night long. Even at the beginning of the game when we were up like 17 at one point, I wasn't looking at the scoreboard like, 'Let's put them away." I was like, 'Let's just stay solid, keep competing, keep playing hard,' Lillard said. "And then when they make their runs, and when they get back in the game, (you) just weather those storms."It was the first postseason meeting between the teams since the Thunder moved from Seattle to Oklahoma City.Oklahoma City beat the Blazers in all four meetings this season, including a heated 129-121 overtime victory on March 7.The Thunder have been to the playoffs for eight of the last nine seasons, but they haven't gotten past the opening round for the past two.George was nursing a sore right shoulder and was considered day-to-day for Sunday's game but he started. However he was just 1 of 6 from the floor in the opening quarter. For the game, he made four of 15 3-point attempts."Four days ago I couldn't even lift my shoulder," he said. "Then fast forward to today this is the first day I've even shot the ball, so for me it's just rhythm."George missed the Thunder' regular-season finale Wednesday at Milwaukee because of the nagging injury, which also kept him out of games on Feb. 28, March 2 and March 3.McCollum missed 10 games down the stretch with a left knee strain and had only played in two games since returning. But he started and hit his first two 3-point attempts.The Blazers' hopes for postseason success were dealt a blow last month when center Jusuf Nurkic was lost for the season with a broken left leg. Nurkic was averaging 15.6 points and 10.4 rebounds when he sustained the gruesome injury during a game against the Brooklyn Nets.Kanter, signed just before the All-Star break after he was waived by the New York Knicks, has started in Nurkic's place.The Thunder rallied from a 19-point deficit in the first half to trail by just 54-48 at the break. But they struggled from 3-point range, making just two of 18 attempts.There was simmering tension between the teams. Terrance Ferguson and McCollum had a heated exchange in the second quarter, earning technical fouls. Ferguson earned his third foul and headed to the bench.Westbrook's layup got the Thunder within 64-60, but he collected his fourth foul late in the third and went to the bench. The Blazers went into the fourth quarter with a 76-69 lead.The Thunder's only lead was in the opening quarter."It's a series. First to four. They won the first game," Westbrook said. "Now we make adjustments, come back, play harder next game and try to take it."TIP-INS:Thunder: While the Thunder swept the Blazers 4-0 during the regular season, Portland swept them in four games the season before.Trail Blazers: Blazers coach Terry Stotts concluded his pregame talk with the media by saying. "All right. Masters." The Blazers were 8-8 in the postseason against the SuperSonics. ... Portland had won the last eight regular-season games at the Moda Center. ... Kanter had his third playoff double-double. ... The Blazers haven't made it out of the first round for the past two seasons. Last year as a No. 3 seed Portland got swept by the New Orleans Pelicans.KANTER'S DAYIn just his ninth start with the Blazers, Kanter became just the third player in team history with at least 20 points and 18 rebounds in playoff game. Bill Walton did it three times and LaMarcus Aldridge once."He gave us a lot of toughness inside," Stotts said. "Obviously, his rebounding and scoring. I thought his conditioning was really good. He maintained a high level of play for a long period of time."UP NEXT: Game 2 is Tuesday night at the Moda Center.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideThe Philadelphia 76er who made the greatest impact in Game 3 of the team’s first-round playoff series against the Nets wasn’t Ben Simmons, the N.B.A.’s reigning rookie of the year, who scored 31 points. Nor was it the team’s most dominant player, Joel Embiid, who missed the game with knee tendinitis. Or the sharpshooter J.J. Redick. Or the four-time All Star Jimmy Butler.It was Tobias Harris, the oft-traded, oft-underappreciated power forward who has an ego compact enough to fit inside his white headband — with room to spare.“Tobias was our bell-ringer tonight,” 76ers Coach Brett Brown said Thursday after the 131-115 win gave Philadelphia a two-games-to-one lead in the best-of-seven series, which resumes Saturday in Brooklyn.Harris finished with playoff career highs of 29 points and 16 rebounds and made all six of his 3-pointers. At 6-foot-9, he owned the perimeter against the Nets’ smaller guards, and his work on defense was just as effective.“You start looking at Tobias’s rebounds and what he did from the 3-point line,” Brown said. “I’m proud of him. He’s good people, and he was fantastic tonight.”The Nets are the feel-good story of the postseason, given the expectations for them last fall. But after losses in the last two games, it would seem that chemistry, scrappiness and heart go only so far against a Philadelphia lineup with the most talent outside Golden State.Harris, who is from Dix Hills on Long Island, was the final piece of a Sixers team assembled to make a deep playoff run. In early February, amid the best season of his career, Harris was traded from the Los Angeles Clippers. He could have signed an $80 million contract extension with the Clippers in the last off-season but decided to gamble on himself instead. He elected to play out his final year and become an unrestricted free agent this summer in hopes of a max contract — and some stability.Having been traded five times in eight seasons, Harris would like to be able to drop off his dry cleaning, then wake up in the same city to pick it up. At 26, after an All-Star-caliber season, he is looking for a home. That might even be Philadelphia.He averaged 20 points and 7.9 rebounds this season in a total of 82 games with the Clippers and Sixers. In 27 regular-season games for Philadelphia, Harris averaged 18.2 points, tying him with Butler for second on the 76ers’ scoring list, behind Embiid, who averaged 27.5.For Game 4, the 76ers may still be without Embiid, which means that they will again need balanced scoring from the rest of their talented cast. On Thursday, Philadelphia had three scorers with 26 or more points (Simmons, Harris, Redick). The last time the franchise accomplished that in a playoff game was Game 3 of the 1978 conference semifinals against the Knicks. That night, it was Julius Erving, George McGinnis and World B. Free.“I felt good,” Harris said. “I just came in knowing with Joel down, it was a big scoring loss we had out there. I had to be aggressive from the start. I got some good looks throughout the game. I was able to let it fly, and it felt good for it to go in.”“It was a big game personally for myself and for the team, too,” he added.Beyond basketball, Harris co-stars in the best buddy movie in the N.B.A., known as the Bobi + Tobi Show. In 2016, Harris and Boban Marjanovic, a 7-foot-3 Serbian center, developed a close bond while playing for the Detroit Pistons. They were then traded to the Clippers for Blake Griffin in January 2018. About a year later, they became a package deal headed to Philadelphia.The Clippers produced three web episodes of the “Bobi + Tobi Show” focused on the pair’s friendship and foibles. They took a SoulCycle class together. They attempted a dance lesson. The fun continued in Philadelphia, where a TV station did a quiz show segment with them, focusing on trivia about their new city. Neither could pronounce “Schuylkill.”In Game 3, Marjanovic played the sidekick during Harris’s star turn. He came off the bench and split time with Greg Monroe, who had replaced Embiid in the starting lineup.Monroe and Marjanovic combined for 43 minutes and 21 of the Sixers’ 54 rebounds. With Harris defending on the perimeter, the load was lighter on the big men in the paint, though Marjanovic fouled out with about seven minutes left in the game.No matter. His buddy had his back. The game was in control, and Harris looked right at home.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPHILADELPHIA — D'Angelo Russell rang up a scoring burst that helped Brooklyn dial up an upset and filled Philly's home court with a barrage of boos.All-Star Ben Simmons wants to put the fans on mute — and the Sixers could stand to silence their cellphones."If you're going to boo, then stay on that side," Simmons said.Russell flashed some postseason magic, playing like the All-Star leader Brooklyn needed with 26 points, and Caris LeVert scored 23 to lead the Nets to an impressive 111-102 win Saturday over the 76ers in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series."We've got the right pieces to keep it going," Russell said.Check out this update on a mobile device: A Nets team that got hot late just to make the playoffs has the upper hand on the road over a 51-win team stocked with stars."I think earlier in the season, especially when we were struggling, we'd lose games like that," coach Kenny Atkinson said.Not in April.Russell, LeVert and Spencer Dinwiddie gave the Sixers fits off the dribble, buried open looks from 3-point range (11 of 26) and smoked a Sixers team that resembled one straight out of the early Process era.Russell got the first win of his playoff career and the last laugh, scoring 14 points in the third quarter and leading the Nets to one of the biggest wins since they moved to Brooklyn. It came days after Los Angeles Lakers executive Magic Johnson, who dumped Russell on the Nets, resigned. Russell, who scored 19 points in the second half, can safely scroll through his phone to see his Nets are trending.The 76ers might want to keep their phones on lock.Sixers benchwarmer Amir Johnson was caught by TV cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone late in the fourth quarter and the Sixers down big. Johnson showed All-Star Joel Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid it into his warmup pants pocket.Embiid said Johnson received an update on a sick daughter. Sixers coach Brett Brown called Johnson's actions "completely unacceptable."So was Philadelphia's performance.Jimmy Butler scored 36 points and saved the Sixers, widely considered a favorite to at least reach the East semis, from losing by 25. Embiid slogged his way through 24 forgettable minutes on his bum left knee. Simmons was a postseason dud against Russell, his high school teammate.The sixth-seeded Nets turned Philly in the city of 20,000 boos — and that's just counting the ones echoing throughout the Wells Fargo Center — as they phoned in one of their worst efforts of the season.Sixers starters Simmons, Tobias Harris and JJ Redick combined to shoot 11 of 31 from the floor for 18 points. The Sixers missed 22 of 25 3-pointers."We all got to do a better job. Us. The fans. We have to bring the fun," Embiid said.Poised for a postseason breakthrough, Russell flourished and hit a string of jumpers in the third that never let the Sixers seriously chip away at the lead. LeVert's third 3 in the fourth made it a 16-point game and there was no looking back — at least not for Russell as he raised his arms in celebration as he headed down the tunnel into Brooklyn's locker room."I trust our offense. We got great minds behind it," Russell said. "Coach set us up earlier this season with a routine and recipe for the offense and it's been flowing ever since."Embiid was introduced to a roaring standing ovation and heard chants of "MVP!" and "Trust the Process" when he opened the game with two free throws.But he just wasn't ready to play at an All-Star level for any serious length of time. He was hit with a technical when he shoved Jared Dudley to the ground and went back to the locker room for more treatment with about 3 minutes left in the first half. He scored 22 points — including 12 free throws — and had 15 rebounds.Butler kept the Sixers in the game with a sensational first half that showed why the franchise surrendered so much to land the four-time All-Star. He buried a 3 at the horn to send the Sixers into the break down 62-54. He was 6 of 10 and scored 23 points while the rest of the Sixers shot 10 of 38 for 31 points.Embiid has always fancied himself a 3-point shooter, and with tendinitis in his left knee that cost him most of the final month of the season rendering him immobile, he decided to camp out a bit more beyond the arc. He missed all five 3s in the half — and the Sixers missed their first 11."I thought that Joel looked like he hadn't played for a while yet was still dominant," Brown said.With or without a healthy Embiid, the Nets were about unstoppable for much of the half with the Sixers clearly not ready to play. Dinwiddie and DeMarre Carroll hit consecutive 3s during a 12-0 run. LeVert hit two straight 3s for a 14-point lead and the Sixers — who had been the darlings of the city during the Process — were soundly booed off the court by 20,000 fans ticked off at a supposed East contender.TIP-INSNets: C Jarrett Allen was whistled for fouls on Philadelphia's first two possessions.76ers: Butler and Tobias Harris are both eligible for free agency and could stick around after they were acquired in mid-season trades. Team owner Josh Harris said both players could be re-signed. "It's really hard to get good players of their caliber. Now that we've attracted them into our system, we're going to work really hard at keeping them around for a while," Harris said.VOTE OF CONFIDENCE?Harris said Brown was a "great coach" but offered no assurance he would return to the bench for another season if the Sixers failed to make a deep run in the playoffs."We think he's the right leader to take us where we need to go in the playoffs," Harris said. "I'm focused on the Brooklyn Nets."UP NEXTGame 2 is Monday in Philadelphia.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel VictorIn his two years as president of basketball operations for the Los Angeles Lakers, Magic Johnson presided over a team as chaotic and playoff-free as the one he’d inherited.The Lakers succeeded in stockpiling talent — including the franchise-altering signing of LeBron James — but failed in putting together complementary pieces, or attracting the second major star Johnson openly said he was chasing.[Magic Johnson stunned the basketball world by suddenly stepping down on Tuesday.]Here’s a look back at Johnson’s high and low points while running the team.In February 2017, four seasons into the team’s longest-ever playoff drought, the Lakers reshuffled their front office by firing the general manager, Mitch Kupchak, and installing Johnson as its president. Less than a month later, Rob Pelinka, a longtime agent, was hired as the general manager, reporting to Johnson.Officially and unofficially, Johnson had remained tied to the team since he retired in 1996. He owned a share of the team from 1994 to 2010, and after that he was an honorary vice president — a title the team took away from him after he violated the league’s tampering rules by tweeting about free agents.Three weeks before he was hired in his new role, he had returned to the Lakers as an adviser to Jeanie Buss, the team’s president and co-owner. She would soon clean house while promoting Johnson.“Everyone associated with the Lakers will now be pulling in the same direction, the direction established by Earvin and myself,” she said, using Johnson’s given name. “We are determined to get back to competing to win N.B.A. championships again.”The first major test of the new regime had decidedly mixed results.Days before the draft, Johnson shed the costly contract of Timofey Mozgov by giving up on D’Angelo Russell, whom the team had selected second over all just two years earlier. In return for the duo, the Brooklyn Nets gave up Brook Lopez and the 27th pick in the draft, which turned into the promising Kyle Kuzma. But Russell has blossomed this year with the Nets, earning an All-Star appearance while leading Brooklyn back to the playoffs.Russell’s departure opened the point guard spot for Lonzo Ball, who has flashed two-way potential but largely fallen short of his lofty expectations as the second pick in the draft. In addition to Kuzma, the Lakers struck gold with Josh Hart, who was selected 30th and has become a core piece.Johnson made no secret of his intent to draw the game’s biggest stars to Los Angeles, with an eye toward what was expected to be a major 2018 off-season. The team largely punted on the 2017 off-season to preserve its salary cap space in 2018, signing Kentavious Caldwell-Pope to a one-year deal.At the 2018 trade deadline, the Lakers shed the contracts of Jordan Clarkson and Larry Nance Jr., opening more cap space. Johnson said the trade indicated the Lakers would have the cap space and the ability to land two star players, either by trade or free agency.“I wouldn’t have made the move if I wasn’t confident,” he said at the time.Signing LeBron James to a long-term contract in 2018 was exactly the kind of result the Lakers had planned for and needed, setting expectations that they would return to the playoffs and compete for a championship. But the free agents the Lakers signed to surround him — Caldwell-Pope, Rajon Rondo, Lance Stephenson, JaVale McGee and Michael Beasley — immediately puzzled some observers.An optimist would have called them playoff-tested veterans. Others saw it differently: A cast of nonshooters and big personalities who would have a questionable fit next to James and the Lakers’ young talent.The hodgepodge crew was assembled partly because the team struck out on its bigger targets. After years of speculation that Paul George would return to his hometown, he instead opted to re-sign with Oklahoma City. The San Antonio Spurs sent Kawhi Leonard east to the Toronto Raptors. DeMarcus Cousins signed a bargain, one-year deal with the Golden State Warriors.Once the season arrived, the Lakers blew it in dramatic fashion, extending their record playoff drought. But they preserved cap space for the 2019 off-season, giving them another chance to add a star.There could be little doubt the Lakers would be interested in Anthony Davis as soon as he became available. James and Davis share an agent, and the Lakers were long believed to be Davis’s most committed suitor.But when the All-Star center made a public trade request in late January, he created a debacle for Johnson and the Lakers. The players in the Lakers’ young core — Ball, Kuzma, Hart and Brandon Ingram, the second overall pick from the 2016 draft — were constantly named in leaked trade offers.The Pelicans made an effort to head off any potential tampering when they announced Davis’s trade request. “We have also requested the League to strictly enforce the tampering rules associated with this transaction,” the team said in a statement.In addition to Davis’s connections to the Lakers, Los Angeles had a well-known history of tampering, dating back to Johnson’s tweets before he took over.Johnson was not very subtle about recruiting George during a 2017 appearance on “Jimmy Kimmel Live,” during which he was asked what he would do if he saw the player socially.“We’re going to say hi because we know each other, you just can’t say, ‘Hey, I want you to come to the Lakers,’ even though I’ll be wink-winking like, ‘You know what that means, right?’ ”The episode earned Johnson a warning from the N.B.A., and the team was later fined $500,000 for what the league deemed impermissible contact between Pelinka and George’s agent.In June 2018, Johnson was fined $50,000 for his comments about Giannis Antetokounmpo after praising the Bucks star.In February, the Sixers’ Ben Simmons — who plays as an oversize point guard, like Johnson did — requested a meeting with Johnson to get playing tips, prompting Johnson to publicly praise the former Rookie of the Year. But the league ultimately determined Johnson had not broken tampering rules.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Stephen Curry was about 25 minutes into a news conference here on Saturday afternoon when a magician who goes by the name Jibrizy sidled up to the dais to do a card trick. Curry, the Golden State Warriors point guard, seemed impressed.“That was nice, big fella,” Curry said. “That was crazy. Y’all see that? Did y’all see that? What’s your name, boss? Jibrizy? Nice to meet you, man. Fire. You’re fire. That’s what’s up.”Lots of weird stuff tends to happen during N.B.A. All-Star weekend, and a cameo by Jibrizy was no exception. But it was also the rare instance when the spotlight left Curry, if only for a moment, in the run-up to the weekend’s flagship game on Sunday.Curry, a six-time All-Star and two-time most valuable player who has already coaxed Golden State to three championships, is used to lots of attention. But he relished his return to Charlotte, where he grew up to become perhaps the greatest shooter of all time — and where he is still revered.“From the time I started playing basketball at 5, right down the street at the recreation center, to now, a lot has happened,” Curry said. “A lot of great things.”Curry was not so great Sunday, but that was not the point. He finished with 17 points, 9 rebounds and 7 assists for Team Giannis in a 178-164 loss to Team LeBron in the All-Star Game, which was a defense-free postscript to a weekend that was a Curry family affair.“Incredibly fond of the family,” Commissioner Adam Silver told reporters. “They seem to be the first family of Charlotte, at least this week.”For much of his trip home, Curry was accompanied by his father, Dell, who spent 10 seasons playing for the Charlotte Hornets, and his mother, Sonya, who drilled a half-court heave after the family helped refurbish a community center. It was probably the family’s splashiest shot of the weekend.“I was surprised,” Stephen Curry said, “because the first four she flung underhand, they didn’t make it to the rim. And then that last one, it just looked good from the moment it left her hand, and I was going, ‘Wham, bam, can of ham! That’s going in!’ ”Curry had less success in Saturday night’s 3-point shootout, where he was joined by his younger brother, Seth, who plays for the Portland Trail Blazers. Stephen Curry made it to the championship round before losing to Joe Harris of the Brooklyn Nets.But Curry had also found time to return to Davidson College, his alma mater, where he clambered into the student section to celebrate an 80-72 victory over St. Joseph’s on Friday night.“The energy in the building was unbelievable,” Curry said. “It’s surreal every time I get to go back there.”The following afternoon, Curry swayed in a sea of reporters (and at least one magician) as he fielded a wide-ranging mix of questions.What did it mean to him to be back in Charlotte? “It’s kind of overwhelming to be honest,” he said. “I’ve got to be like the Energizer bunny.”Could he say something nice to all his fans in the Dominican Republic? “I’ve been there, and I hope to go back,” he said.Did he have a favorite basketball-themed movie? “Probably ‘Love & Basketball,’ ” he said. “I’m a romantic, bro.”During warm-ups for Sunday’s game, Curry mimicked a game of volleyball with Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, posted up a ball boy so that he could take an entry pass from Oklahoma City Thunder point guard Russell Westbrook, made chitchat with bigwigs who were courtside and jacked his share of 30-footers. Most of them went in. All-Star weekend is a circus, but it is still basketball, after all, and Curry has unique skills.He is assembling another spectacular season, even if his work has been overshadowed by fellow All-Stars like James Harden of the Houston Rockets, Paul George of the Thunder and Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo. Curry has been so consistently good for so long now — and his team so dominant — that perhaps some of the novelty has worn off. It is unfair, of course.If his feats feel too familiar, consider his production this season: 28.6 points, 5.2 assists and 5.1 rebounds per game while shooting 48.8 percent from the field and 44.4 percent from 3-point range. He missed 11 games with a groin injury but spent part of that time gluing the Warriors’ locker room back together after Kevin Durant and Draymond Green had a big dust-up.The friction stemmed from Durant’s looming free agency, which has been a steady hum of distraction for the Warriors. But Curry has been a stabilizing force for his team — and even for the league.With a contract that runs through the 2021-22 season, Curry has not had to face pressing questions about his future. He is committed to the Warriors, and the Warriors appear committed to him. He is a throwback in an era dominated by player movement, the current face of which is Anthony Davis, the All-Star center who recently requested a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans. So many other stars face uncertain summers, too: Durant, Kyrie Irving and Kawhi Leonard among them.But Curry has his niche in Northern California, even if his roots are in North Carolina. After Sunday’s game, he described trying to persuade his father to move to the Bay Area, where Curry has settled in with his wife, Ayesha, and their three children.Dell Curry, who is a color commentator for the Hornets, always says no.“This is where home is for him,” Stephen Curry said.And for Stephen Curry, the whereabouts of his father seem to be the only player movements on his mind. Curry said he was unconcerned with free agency this summer and the potential departures of his teammates.“That’s a part of the business,” Curry said. “But the great teams, the great players, they stay in the moment and they understand what’s in front of them.”And so, after taking a weekend to dip into his past, Curry returned to looking ahead. The journey goes on.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Golden State Warriors celebrated their final regular-season game in Oracle Arena with a third-quarter explosion Sunday night, producing a 131-104 win over the Los Angeles Clippers in Oakland, Calif., that clinched top seeding throughout the Western Conference playoffs.The win was Golden State's fifth in a row and 30th of the season at home. The Warriors' first-round opponent, which will be the eighth seed in the West, has yet to be determined. The playoffs begin next Saturday.The Clippers' third straight loss dropped them to 47-34 and closer to a first-round matchup with the Warriors. The Clippers are battling Oklahoma City (47-33) and San Antonio (47-34), both of which won Sunday, for the sixth, seventh and eighth playoff spots in the West.Curry finished with a game-high 27 points for the Warriors, who improved their all-time regular-season record at Oracle Arena to 1,166-770. Like the Warriors, all five Clippers starters scored in double figures, led by Landry Shamet with 17. All but two of Shamet's points came on 5-for-6 3-point shooting.Trail Blazers 115, Nuggets 108Damian Lillard scored 30 points, and Al-Farouq Aminu added a season-high 23 points and 11 rebounds as Portland rallied for a victory over visiting Denver.The Trail Blazers closed the game on a 17-3 run to register their ninth win in the last 11 games. CJ McCollum made his return to the Portland lineup after missing 10 games with a knee injury. McCollum collected nine points, six rebounds and six assists in 25 minutes.Gary Harris scored 18 points to lead Denver, which won the season series with Portland 3-1. The Nuggets played without center Nikola Jokic, forward Paul Millsap and guard Jamal Murray, all given the night off for rest. They need to win their final two games, or get one win and a Rockets loss in their finale at the Thunder, to secure the West's No. 2 seed.Bucks 115, Hawks 107Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 30 points with nine rebounds, and Khris Middleton added 21 as Milwaukee recorded its first 60-victory season since 1980-81 in beating visiting Atlanta.Antetokounmpo, who is now six points away from 2,000 for the second consecutive season, was back on the court for the Eastern Conference champions after missing Saturday's game against the Brooklyn Nets because of a sore left calf.Alex Len scored a career-high 33 points for the Hawks, who were playing without starters John Collins (ankle) and Trae Young (wrist). DeAndre' Bembry added 13 points for Atlanta, which already has been eliminated from playoff contention.Nets 108, Pacers 96D'Angelo Russell scored 20 points, and Brooklyn clinched its first playoff berth since 2015 by leading most of the way in a win over host Indiana.The Nets clinched at least the seventh seed after the Detroit Pistons lost to the Charlotte Hornets earlier Sunday, and could have secured the No. 6 seed if Orlando had lost its game at Boston later on Sunday. Russell shot 7-for-15 and made a 3-pointer for the 60th straight game.The Pacers lost for the ninth time in 12 games and officially are locked into the fifth seed. Even if Indiana and Boston finish tied, the Celtics own the head-to-head tiebreaker. Domantas Sabonis led Indiana with 17 points and Thaddeus Young -- who was a starting forward in 2015 for the Nets -- added 16.Magic 116, Celtics 108Orlando clinched its first postseason berth in seven years with a road win against Boston, ended the Magic's longest playoff drought in franchise historyTerrence Ross scored 14 of his 26 points in the fourth quarter, and Nikola Vucevic had 25 points and 12 rebounds for the Magic, who were perfect (22-for-22) from the free-throw line. The Magic are tied with Brooklyn for the sixth seed in the Eastern Conference with one game left in the regular season.Kyrie Irving led the Celtics with 23 points, and Al Horford added 18.Raptors 117, Heat 109Danny Green scored 21 points -- including seven in overtime -- as Toronto defeated visiting Miami, sweeping the four-game season series.Miami's playoff hopes were severely damaged by the loss. The Heat are now one game behind the Pistons -- and tied with the Hornets -- in the race for the eighth and final playoff spot in the East.Pascal Siakam added 23 points and grabbed 10 rebounds, and Norman Powell also had 23 points off the bench for the Raptors. Dwyane Wade scored 21 points for the Heat, who have lost four in a row.Hornets 104, Pistons 91Kemba Walker scored 31 points, Frank Kaminsky added a season-high 24 and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive in beating host Detroit for its third straight win, clinching a four-game sweep of the season series.The Hornets (38-42) moved into ninth place in the Eastern Conference playoff race and are one game behind the No. 8 Pistons (39-41). Charlotte holds the tiebreaker edge over both the Heat and the Pistons.Walker added eight rebounds and seven assists and the Hornets also got 17 points from Jeremy Lamb. Detroit has now lost four straight and seven of its last nine. Blake Griffin scored 16 but was hobbling much of the day with a knee injury.Rockets 149, Suns 113James Harden flirted with a triple-double, Clint Capela posted added 22 points and 13 rebounds, and Houston closed out its home schedule with a 36-point dismantling of Phoenix.The Rockets turned in their second consecutive blowout win on their home court to keep hold of the third seed in the Western Conference. Houston led 117-77 entering the fourth quarter against the short-handed Suns. The Rockets have won six straight, all by double digits by an average of 25.8 points per game.Harden posted 30 points on 10-for-14 shooting with 13 rebounds and nine assists as the Rockets set an NBA record with 27 3-pointers. The Suns, missing a half dozen regulars, have dropped eight of their last 10 games.Thunder 132, Timberwolves 126Paul George and Russell Westbrook each scored 27 points as Oklahoma City had to come from behind, scoring 37 fourth-quarter points, to win its third consecutive game by beating Minnesota in Minneapolis.Oklahoma City's first three-game winning streak since winning four in a row from Feb. 5-11 has kept the Thunder in contention for the sixth spot in the Western Conference.Westbrook also finished with 10 rebounds and 15 assists for his 136th career triple-double. Westbrook is just two behind Magic Johnson for second all-time in the category. Karl-Anthony Towns finished with 35 points, hitting 13 of 14 from the free-throw line, and Andrew Wiggins had 24 points.Spurs 112, Cavaliers 90LaMarcus Aldridge scored 18 points, including 16 in the first half to a big lead, as visiting San Antonio throttled Cleveland in the teams' penultimate game of the regular season.The Spurs' victory, their third in their past four games, allows them to continue to put pressure on Oklahoma City and the Los Angeles Clippers in the battle for the final three playoff seeds in the West.DeRozan, Davis Bertans and Patty Mills contributed 14 points apiece for the Spurs, while Forbes scored 13. Collin Sexton and Brandon Knight led the anemic Cavaliers' attack with 16 points each, while Ante Zizic added 14.Lakers 113, Jazz 109Kentavious Caldwell-Pope scored 18 of his 32 points in the fourth quarter to help Los Angeles hold off visiting Utah, whose chances of gaining home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs were damaged.The Jazz (49-31), who also saw their seven-game winning streak snapped, trail Portland by two games for fourth place in the West with two games left for each team.JaVale McGee had 22 points and eight rebounds, and Alex Caruso had 18 points and 11 assists for the Lakers. Rudy Gobert had 21 points and 10 rebounds to lead the Jazz. Donovan Mitchell scored 19 points but missed all 10 shots in the second half.Mavericks 129, Grizzlies 127 (OT)Reserve guard Devin Harris buried a tie-breaking 3-pointer with 1:26 to go in overtime, and Trey Burke scored a team-high 24 points to lead visiting Dallas past Memphis.Backup center Salah Mejri slammed home key dunks in the latter part of the fourth quarter, tipped home the tying bucket with 1.5 seconds in regulation and then opened overtime with seven consecutive points. He finished with 19 points off the bench on 7-of-12 shooting to go with nine rebounds.Starting for injured point guard Mike Conley, Delon Wright had a triple-double for the Grizzlies with 20 points, 12 assists and 13 rebounds. Justin Holiday scored a game-high 30 points, drilling six of his 11 3-point attempts.Pelicans 133, Kings 129Elfrid Payton had a double-double and made a 3-pointer that put visiting New Orleans ahead for good in a victory over Sacramento.The injury-plagued Pelicans used just eight players after choosing to rest forward Julius Randle, but all five starters had scored in double figures by the middle of the third quarter. Payton finished with 26 points and 14 assists, while Ian Clark made a career-high seven 3-pointers as he scored a season-high 31 points.Harrison Barnes scored 29 points, De'Aaron Fox had 24 points and 11 assists, and Marvin Bagley III had 19 points and 14 rebounds for the Kings (39-42), who are guaranteed a losing record for the 13th consecutive season.Knicks 113, Wizards 110Mario Hezonja scored 30 points and hit a 3-pointer with 44.8 seconds left that gave New York the lead for good in a win over visiting Washington.In his second start at point guard in place of injured Emmanuel Mudiay, Hezonja made 12 of 21 shots for the Knicks, who had lost 11 of their previous 12 against the Wizards. The Knicks (16-64) must win their final two games to avoid matching the worst record in franchise history, set in 2014-15.Jeff Green had 19 points in 16 minutes for Washington, which has lost three straight. Thomas Bryant added 17 points, and Bobby Portis contributed 11 points and 10 rebounds.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressThe Nets were all business on Sunday. They started fast. They closed hard. And they refused to let anything, even a frequent nemesis, block their playoff path.Instead, the Nets beat Indiana at its own physical game and earned their first playoff berth in four years with a 108-96 victory on the road — though the muted locker room celebration made it hard to tell if players were more relieved or excited that the drought was over.“It means a lot, obviously to exceed expectations for a lot of us in here, to see how far we’ve come,” Joe Harris said after scoring 18 of his 19 points in the decisive first half. “It means a ton. Hopefully, it’s a sign of things to come for this organization.”After starting the season 8-18, the Nets (41-40) fought back to clinch their first nonlosing record in four years and can make it a winning season by beating Miami in Wednesday’s regular-season finale. They have the same record as Orlando; the Nets will finish sixth and the Magic seventh with a win or an Orlando loss. The Nets will be no worse than seventh.“There was another level of focus, another level of being locked in,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “They wanted it so bad, there was an extra energy there in these past few games.”The Nets, who got 20 points from D’Angelo Russell and 18 from Caris LeVert, ended a nine-game losing streak against the Pacers and a seven-game losing streak in Indianapolis that dated to March 2015.Domantas Sabonis had 17 points and 12 rebounds for Indiana, which has lost two straight at home and five of seven over all, locking the Pacers into the No. 5 seed in the East.“They were playing for something and they went out and showed it,” the Pacers’ Myles Turner said of the Nets.KNICKS 113, WIZARDS 110 Mario Hezonja scored a career-high 30 points and made the go-ahead 3-pointer with 44 seconds left, and the Knicks beat Washington at Madison Square Garden for the first time in nine games over six years.Luke Kornet added 17 points and Kevin Knox had 16 for the Knicks (16-64), who would have tied the franchise record for losses had they not rallied from a 10-point deficit after three quarters.“There’s no quitters in this locker room, in this organization, and we’re just showing we have a great chemistry going around and it resulted in a win,” Hezonja said. “So we’re not paying attention to standings or whatever it is. We just treat it as a development year and hopefully it results in something big next year.”The Knicks have to win their last two games to avoid at least matching their 17-65 record under Derek Fisher in 2014-15.HORNETS 104, PISTONS 91 Kemba Walker scored 20 of his 31 points in the first half to help Charlotte win at Detroit.The Hornets won their third in a row to keep their East playoff hopes alive. Charlotte and Miami are tied for ninth, a game behind Detroit. All three teams have two games left.RAPTORS 117, HEAT 109 Pascal Siakam had 23 points and 10 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard scored 22 points, and host Toronto won in overtime, further denting Miami’s fading playoff hopes.MAGIC 116, CELTICS 108 Terrence Ross had 26 points, Nikola Vucevic added 25 points and 12 rebounds, and Orlando rallied at Boston to clinch its first playoff berth in seven years.WARRIORS 131, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 27 points as Golden State clinched the Western Conference’s top seed, beating Los Angeles in the Warriors’ final regular-season game at Oracle Arena.3-POINTER RECORD James Harden scored 30 points in just three quarters as the Houston Rockets broke their N.B.A. record by making 27 3-pointers in a 149-113 home win against Phoenix. Eric Gordon led the way with eight 3-pointers, and Harden had five.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy Marc SteinKristaps Porzingis of the Dallas Mavericks is under investigation by the New York Police Department after a recent accusation that he sexually assaulted a woman last season while he was playing for the Knicks, according to two people familiar with the case who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.Porzingis, who had not been charged as of Saturday night, denied the allegation through a statement from his lawyer Roland G. Riopelle.“We are aware of the complaint that was made against Mr. Porzingis on Friday and unequivocally deny the allegation,” Riopelle said. “We made a formal referral to federal law enforcement on December 20, 2018, based on the accuser’s extortionate demands.“We also alerted the National Basketball Association months ago, and they are aware of the ongoing investigation of the accuser by federal law enforcement. We cannot comment further on an ongoing federal investigation.”The N.B.A. spokesman Mike Bass said in a statement that the league was “aware of the situation,” but he did not elaborate.An N.Y.P.D. spokesman would not confirm or address any complaints against a specific individual, saying, “The N.Y.P.D. takes sexual assault and all rape cases extremely seriously, and urges anyone who has been a victim to file a report so we can perform a comprehensive investigation, and offer support and services to survivors.”Mavericks officials declined to comment, and a spokesman for the Knicks said, “This is Kristaps’s personal matter and not related to the Knicks.”The New York Post first reported Saturday that the woman told the police of the suspected attack from Feb. 7, 2018, on Thursday. Porzingis sustained a torn anterior crucial ligament in his left knee while playing for the Knicks on Feb. 6, 2018. The woman, according to the report, said Porzingis assaulted her hours later at the Sky building in Midtown Manhattan where each had a residence.The woman waited more than a year to come forward, according to The Post, because she had discussed receiving a payment of $68,000 from Porzingis. The Post also reported that the woman is in her 20s and that the N.Y.P.D.’s Special Victims Division has taken over the case.The Mavericks acquired the 7-foot-3 Porzingis from the Knicks in a seven-player trade on Jan. 31, but Porzingis has not played this season for either team while recovering from the knee injury. On the call with the league office to complete the blockbuster deal, Dallas was apprised by the Knicks of a potential “extortion issue” with Porzingis, according to one person familiar with the details of the call who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Porzingis will become a restricted free agent in July and is eligible for a five-year maximum contract worth an estimated $160 million from the Mavericks. Team officials have said repeatedly since acquiring Porzingis that they hope to sign him as quickly as possible.LAKERS SHUT DOWN JAMES LeBron James’s disappointing first season as a Los Angeles Laker ended abruptly when the team announced that it would hold him out of its final six games as a health precaution.“After consulting with our team doctors and medical staff, we have decided to hold LeBron out of games for the remainder of the season,” the Lakers said in a statement distributed on Saturday afternoon.“This decision will allow his groin to fully heal, and is best for the future success of both LeBron and the Lakers.”James thus ends his debut season as a Laker with just 55 of a possible 82 games played. He averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists and moved into fourth in career scoring — ahead of Michael Jordan — with 32,543 points.NETS 110, CELTICS 96 D’Angelo Russell scored 20 of his 29 points in another blistering third quarter against Boston, leading the Nets to a victory over short-handed Boston at Barclays Center.Back from a seven-game trip that lasted more than two weeks, the Nets had a happy homecoming largely because of Russell, who added 10 assists and finished with 25 points after halftime.It was the third straight time he hurt the Celtics in the third quarter, and the Nets really needed this one after going 2-5 on the road and dropping into seventh place in the Eastern Conference. They are a half-game behind Detroit and lead eighth-place Miami by a half-game and Orlando by one.“I told you, man, every one is going to be worth it,” Russell said. “We need it, scratching and clawing for every one of them.”Caris LeVert added 15 points for the Nets, who had dropped the final two games of the trip and still face a tough stretch now that they are back home.“We know that all these games coming up are playoff games,” Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “It’s just how we have to look at it. We’re in it. We can’t shy away from it.” (AP)HEAT 100, KNICKS 92 Dion Waiters scored 28 points and Dwyane Wade added 16 in his last game at Madison Square Garden as Miami beat the Knicks.Wade had back-to-back baskets in Miami’s 8-0 run to start the fourth quarter after the game was tied through three. He shot 6 for 16 and added seven rebounds in 27 minutes off the bench.Wade received a nice hand from the crowd when he walked to the scorer’s table for the first time midway through the first quarter. He then received an ovation when he checked into the game with 4 minutes 37 seconds left in the period.The Knicks honored Wade’s 15-year career with a video tribute with 2:47 remaining in the opening period after a Miami timeout. Wade then drove to the basket for his first points of the night.Wade, a 13-time All-Star, bid farewell to the Garden by planting a kiss on the Knicks logo at center court.“You love playing here,” Wade said, adding: “When I played in college, I got the opportunity to play here, the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic. It was just immediately, that feel, and the feel was there.”Emmanuel Mudiay scored 24 points for the Knicks, who have lost six straight and 14 of 15 over all, and eight in a row at home. (AP)HARDEN SCORES 50 James Harden had 50 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists, scoring 10 straight Houston points down the stretch to help the host Rockets beat Sacramento, 119-108.Harden had his 42nd career triple-double and his third 50-point game in the last six. He made seven 3-pointers to become the ninth player in N.B.A. history to reach 2,000 career baskets from beyond the arc.(AP)A 3-POINTER RECORD, AGAIN The N.B.A. set a record for 3-pointers made for the seventh straight year, after the 25,808th of the season was made Saturday night. The league is on pace for about an 8 percent rise in 3-pointers over last season — and 3s are being made 57 percent more often than they were five years ago. (AP)Ali Watkins, Kelly Whiteside and Zolan Kanno-Youngs contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressD’Angelo Russell flashed some postseason magic, playing like the All-Star leader the Nets needed with 26 points, and Caris LeVert scored 23, leading the visiting Nets to a 111-102 victory on Saturday over the Philadelphia 76ers in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.Jimmy Butler scored 36 points and saved the third-seeded Sixers, favored by many to at least reach the East semifinals, from losing by 25. Joel Embiid slogged his way through 24 minutes on a troubled left knee that cost him much of the final month of the regular season and managed 22 points and 15 rebounds. Ben Simmons came up small against Russell, his high school teammate, who scored 19 second-half points.Russell, LeVert and Spencer Dinwiddie gave the Sixers fits off the dribble and buried open looks from 3-point range, and a team that got hot late and just made the playoffs suddenly has the upper hand on the road over a 51-win team stocked with stars.“I think earlier in the season, especially when we were struggling, we’d lose games like that,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said.With Philadelphia behind by 16 late in the fourth quarter, Amir Johnson was caught by television cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone. Johnson, who was inactive for the game, showed Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid the device into a pocket of his warm-up pants.“I just looked down because he said his daughter was extremely sick and he was checking on her,” Embiid said.Johnson issued an apology after the game, and the Sixers fined him an unspecified amount. It was a fitting episode in a game that the Sixers seemed to have phoned in.Russell hit a string of jumpers in the third quarter, never letting the Sixers seriously chip away at the lead. LeVert’s third 3-pointer in the fourth made it a 16-point game, and there was no looking back for one of the biggest wins since the sixth-seeded Nets moved to Brooklyn.Dinwiddie and DeMarre Carroll made consecutive 3-pointers during a 12-0 first-half run. LeVert hit two straight 3s for a 14-point lead, and the Sixers were soundly booed off the court.“We all got to do a better job,” Embiid said. “Us. The fans. We have to bring the fun.”WARRIORS 121, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 38 points and made eight 3-pointers, reaching the highest total in postseason history, and top-seeded Golden State began its quest for a three-peat by winning at home against Los Angeles on a night when tempers flared.Kevin Durant and Patrick Beverley were ejected with 4 minutes 41 seconds to go, 19 seconds after they received double technicals when Durant stripped Beverley and the Clippers guard fell into the scorer’s table.They both became enraged again, and the official Ed Malloy immediately sent them both to the locker room. Durant high-fived fans as he left.Curry was 8 for 12 from beyond the arc, passing Ray Allen (385) for career postseason 3-pointers with 386.MAGIC 104, RAPTORS 101 D. J. Augustin scored 25 points, including the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 3.5 seconds left, and seventh-seeded Orlando won at second-seeded Toronto in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round series.Kawhi Leonard, who led the Raptors with 25 points, got a final shot but missed the rim with his 3-point attempt from the top. The Raptors are now 2-14 in playoff series openers.WALTON TO COACH KINGS One day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers, Luke Walton reached an agreement on a four-year deal to coach the Sacramento Kings, according to a person familiar with the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Lakers’ president this week in part because he did not want to go through with firing Walton, as had been expected around the N.B.A. for weeks. On Friday, Walton and the Lakers mutually agreed to part ways with two seasons left on his contract — with Walton knowing that the Kings, after firing Coach Dave Joerger on Thursday, were eager to hire him.The Lakers have the former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and the Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams at their top of their list to succeed Walton. Lue coached the Lakers’ LeBron James for two and a half seasons in Cleveland.(MARC STEIN)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Sopan DebBOSTON — Jayson Tatum boomed on LeBron James in last year’s N.B.A. playoffs. You may remember it. Tatum, the 21-year-old swingman for the Boston Celtics, certainly does.The dunk drew a “wow” from the play-by-play broadcaster Mike Breen. A reporter wrote on Twitter that in the locker room afterward, he overheard James saying that Tatum had “boomed” him, before James repeated four times, “He’s so good.”“I’ve got a big-ass picture of it in my house,” Tatum said in a post-practice interview on Tuesday.The dunk came in the fourth quarter of Game 7 of last year’s Eastern Conference finals. Starting from outside the 3-point line, Tatum took two dribbles with his left hand to get to the rim before hammering a right-handed dunk past James, who attempted a block as a helpless defender. Tatum followed the booming with a chest bump of James, one of his boyhood idols, as if to say, “I’m here.”The Celtics lost that game, but the dunk solidified Tatum, who played one season at Duke, as an emerging N.B.A. star.After the Celtics’ disappointing regular-season run this season, Tatum’s star hasn’t been as bright so far in these playoffs as Boston faces the Indiana Pacers in the first round. He did not make the leap many had thought he would: While he improved as a rebounder and passer, his shot selection led to more long 2-pointers, causing his true shooting percentage to dip from .586 in his rookie campaign to .547 this year, placing him below .560, the league average.He increased his frequency of midrange jumpers but decreased his accuracy in making them: 37 percent, down from 44 percent. Many of his advanced metric statistics, including win shares per 48 minutes, value over replacement player and box plus/minus, were worse this year.Tatum finds himself in an unusual spot, compared with fellow N.B.A. sophomores like Utah’s Donovan Mitchell and Philadelphia’s Ben Simmons. The better Tatum plays, especially in this postseason, the more likely he is to be linked to trade rumors, particularly those involving Anthony Davis, the New Orleans Pelicans star who has requested a trade that could shift the competitive balance in the N.B.A.Several college starters in this year’s Final Four were older than Tatum. But if he cannot live up to the hype he created in last year’s playoffs — that is, if he becomes just another guard — the Pelicans may be more likely to accept a package from the Los Angeles Lakers or another team besides Boston. At the same time, if Celtics point guard Kyrie Irving opts for free agency this summer, the future of the franchise may rest on Tatum’s shoulders. At barely 21, he’d be the alpha.Tatum’s future is more uncertain than many other players who have received significant early acclaim. But one way or another, the Celtics need Tatum to be great. Not just for this year’s playoffs, but for the future.In short, they need him to boom.In a conversation at the Celtics’ practice facility about his future and the atypical stakes, Tatum had talking points at the ready, ones that he had delivered multiple times before. He stared straight ahead, not making eye contact, as if he were running through the script in his head.“Trade rumors don’t bother me,” he said in his deep monotone. “They’re talking about trading me for guys like Anthony Davis. So, I mean, I must be doing something pretty well.” When pressed on whether this bothered him, he didn’t budge: “I love the game of basketball. Being traded is part of the game. I’ll play for whomever. It’s something I can’t control.”He didn’t have much more to say than that. But that is Tatum’s personality, Brad Stevens, the Celtics’ head coach, said. No distractions. That, Stevens said, is his best quality.“Circumstances don’t affect him,” Stevens said. “First game of the season, he’s unaffected by the jitters that everybody has. Seventh game of a playoff series? Unaffected. At least, he shows himself to be unaffected, and he can thrive in that environment.”Stevens said Tatum’s quality of play had improved as he got deeper into the season. He became a better passer, averaging 2.8 assists after the All-Star break, compared with 1.9 before. But his shooting dipped, from 38 percent from deep before the break to 35 percent afterward.Last season, Tatum benefited from the low expectations for the Celtics after injuries to Irving, forward Gordon Hayward and the reserve center Daniel Theis. But he also helped carry Boston to within one win of an unlikely N.B.A. finals appearance. This year, “unlikely” is not in the playoff vocabulary. The Celtics are supposed to get there. And Boston’s fans, never the most positive bunch, can turn on a player in a second. If the Celtics do not advance, after many analysts predicted they would, fans may view Tatum’s season in a harsh light, given how much of the franchise’s fortunes are tied up with him.Tatum said he was not as nervous about the playoffs this time around. Taking a daily pregame nap with his 16-month-old son has helped. The early returns have been positive: In the first game of the series against the Pacers, Tatum scored 15 points on 11 shots. He was plus-11 in 34 minutes as the Celtics ran away with a win. In Game 2, Tatum was even better. He scored 26 points on 20 shots, including multiple thunderous dunks in the fourth quarter, helping Boston take a 2-0 lead in the series.But there hasn’t been a highlight that has matched the dunk on James. Tatum shook his head no when asked if he had ever talked to James about that play. A hint of a grin betrayed his practiced demeanor.“They won, so they got the last laugh,” Tatum said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressKyrie Irving scored 37 points and the Boston Celtics rallied late in the fourth quarter to beat the Indiana Pacers by 99-91 on Wednesday night. The win gave Boston a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven, first-round seriesComing out of a timeout and with a chance to tie, the Pacers’ Wesley Matthews threw an inbounds pass into the bench on the other side of the court with 12.1 seconds left. On the ensuing play, the Celtics’ Al Horford passed to Jayson Tatum, who was fouled on a two-handed dunk. He completed the three-point play to make it 97-91 with 8.8 seconds left.The Pacers turned it over again and the Celtics were able to close out the game at the free throw line.Tatum scored 26 points, including a thunderous dunk down the stretch to help punctuate a 10-0 run by Boston over the final five minutes.[Read: Jayson Tatum has a daily reminder of the booming dunk he delivered on LeBron James last year.]Bojan Bogdanovic led Indiana with 23 points. Thaddeus Young added 15 points.Indiana led by 79-68 entering the fourth. Horford opened the final period scoring on a hook shot in the lane and Tyreke Evans responded with a 3-pointer on Indiana’s first possession.But then Boston caught fire, using a 16-0 run, including eight straight by Irving, to take an 86-82 lead with 5:04 to play. Indiana missed 10 straight shots during the run, finally breaking a nearly eight-minute scoring drought with a 3-pointer by Matthews in front of the Celtics’ bench.Horford had been a game-time decision with an illness, but was able to remain in the Celtics’ starting lineup. He was noticeably a step slower at the outset and didn’t take his first shot until late in the second quarter. He didn’t score his first points until the fourth, finishing with four points, 10 rebounds and four assists for the game.Game 3 is Friday in Indiana.BUCKS 120, PISTONS 99 Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points in Milwaukee’s big third quarter and the Bucks beat the Detroit Pistons, 120-99, on Wednesday night to take a 2-0 lead in the first-round playoff series.Eric Bledsoe led the Bucks with 27 points, and Khris Middleton had 24. Milwaukee is trying win a playoff series for the first time since 2001.Luke Kennard had 19 points for Detroit. Reggie Jackson and Andre Drummond each added 18, and Drummond had 16 rebounds. Detroit star Blake Griffin sat out again with a left knee injury, but received a technical for the second straight game for arguing from the bench.After scoring 10 points and playing only 14 minutes in the first half because of foul trouble, Antetokounmpo scored Milwaukee’s first seven points in the third quarter. The Bucks outscored Detroit 35-17 in the period to take a 93-76 lead into the fourth.Detroit clawed within seven in the fourth before the Bucks put it away, capped by a hard drive by Antetokounmpo on a break. He banked in an awkward reverse-angle shot while crashing to the floor after being fouled by Drummond. He competed the three-point play it make it 105-87.Game 3 is Saturday night in Detroit.GRIZZLIES HIRE EXECUTIVES The Memphis Grizzlies have hired Rich Cho as vice president of basketball strategy and Glen Grunwald as a senior adviser within the franchise’s basketball operations department.Cho is a former Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers general manager. Grunwald was general manager of the Knicks and the Toronto Raptors.Before coming to Portland, Cho was an assistant general manager with the Seattle SuperSonics and continued in that role when the franchise became the Oklahoma City Thunder. Grunwald worked with the Knicks from 2006-13, serving as executive vice president and general manager for the final two seasons of that stretch. He was Toronto’s general manager from 1997 to 2004.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaSACRAMENTO — The Boston Celtics were not in a good place when they boarded a plane bound for California on Sunday. They were coming off a home loss to the Houston Rockets that point guard Kyrie Irving punctuated by using a total of 43 words to answer nine questions in his postgame news conference.At one point, he was asked whether he thought the team could cobble together some momentum on its West Coast trip.“We’ll see,” he whispered.Just one season removed from a run to the N.B.A.’s Eastern Conference finals, and seemingly improved by the re-addition of Gordon Hayward and the continued development of their young core, the Celtics were on the brink of falling apart. Any hope they still harbored of being a championship-ready team was as brittle as a toothpick.But after some reflection and conversation, the Celtics regained a bit of their swagger with back-to-back wins this week against the Golden State Warriors and the Sacramento Kings. The Celtics will see if they can keep the good vibes going on Saturday against the Los Angeles Lakers, which is anything but certain, especially for Irving, whose season has been clouded by questions about his future with the team.Such uncertainty does not make Irving unique in the modern N.B.A. — Kevin Durant of the Warriors and Kawhi Leonard of the Toronto Raptors are among the other stars who will weigh big decisions in free agency this summer — but the Celtics have let the noise affect them.With the two wins this week improving their record to 40-26, the Celtics may be showing signs that they are finally, mercifully, learning how to cope.“That long plane ride helped us out,” Irving said after Tuesday’s lopsided victory over the Warriors. “I’ll just say that. We needed it. We needed it. We were going to get to a point where we were just going to get tired of fighting each other, fighting the outside world when it doesn’t really matter. So we just wanted to come out here and play basketball.“This is our sanctuary, and we have to do everything we can to protect it. We can’t let anyone infiltrate it.”Irving, who missed Wednesday’s win against the Kings with a left thigh contusion, is averaging a team-leading 23.4 points a game along with 7 assists and 4.9 rebounds, both career highs. He is also shooting 49.5 percent from the field and 41.7 percent from 3-point range.He also ranks among the N.B.A. leaders in mercurial behavior. He has been vague about the specific source of his discontent, but it may have something to do with his pending free agency.Irving backed off an earlier pledge to re-sign with the Celtics after they struggled at the start of the season. In fact, during a trip to New York to play the Knicks on Feb. 1, he told a group of reporters in his own colorfully abrasive way that he did not owe anyone anything. The Knicks, of course, would be interested in signing Irving, a six-time All-Star who grew up in New Jersey and has a soft spot for Madison Square Garden.Then came the All-Star break, and a clip of Irving and Durant having an inaudible conversation found its way to the internet, where an army of amateur lip readers tried to decode what they were saying. Worth noting: Irving and Durant are close friends. Also worth noting: The Knicks will have enough cap space this summer for two max contracts.Irving refused to shed light on their chat, and said it was nobody’s business, which was his prerogative. But it had the general effect of using a napkin to mop up an oil spill.Since then, Irving has been alluding to nefarious forces and the steep cost of celebrity, saying he hates the spotlight — even as he sells sneakers and moonlights as an actor. He reiterated his disdain this week after collecting 19 points and 11 assists against the Warriors, his 17th double-double this season.“The business part of it is just what makes it terrible for me — honestly, dealing with all this,” he said, referring to the reporters around him. “I’m going to be honest with you guys: The basketball part of it? I have to keep that fun. That’s where I’m great. Being around my teammates, that’s what makes me happy. And the business part of it is going to be business.”It was not lost on anyone who witnessed this exchange that Irving was bashing the business of basketball while wearing an Uncle Drew ball cap — the same Uncle Drew character he popularized in soft drink commercials and then parlayed into a movie released last year.As for the basketball itself, well, Boston has had an uneven season, the product of a team that is not nearly Lakers-level dysfunctional but is not exactly cohesive, either. The Celtics arrived for their game against the Warriors having lost five of their last six games, and their locker room was a joyless place.Perhaps they needed to get away from Boston. Perhaps they needed perspective. Perhaps Irving needed to speak with Danny Ainge, the team’s president of basketball operations, and Brad Stevens, its coach, who reminded Irving that the team still had a lot of season left to play. It was not over, not yet, not by any stretch.“Every team has to find a togetherness in competing,” Stevens said. “Some teams, it takes 60 games. Some teams, it takes 20 games. And bad teams never get there. We hope that it took us 60 games, but we’ll see. We haven’t proven ourselves to be great at that yet for a long stretch of time.”In their 128-95 win against the Warriors, the Celtics had 38 assists on 49 field goals. They also communicated. When Irving and forward Jaylen Brown botched a play that led to an early turnover, Brown patted himself on the chest to apologize, then appeared to apologize a second time on their next trip up the court.The next night, in Sacramento, Irving sat behind the visiting bench for the Celtics’ 111-109 victory over the Kings. He was vocal. He did a lot of fist-pumping. And he celebrated when Hayward, less than 24 hours after scoring 30 points against the Warriors, connected on the game-winner.After suffering a grisly ankle injury in the opening game and missing last season, Hayward has struggled to find a rhythm in his return. Maybe he found it here in California, along with the rest of the team. The Celtics are too talented to let this opportunity go to waste, because who knows how long it will last?“As long as my teammates are feeling good,” Irving said, “then we’re in a good place.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressJaylen Brown scored 23 points and Kyrie Irving added 19 to help the Boston Celtics beat the host Indiana Pacers, 104-96, on Friday night for a 3-0 lead in the first-round Eastern Conference series.Irving also had 10 assists and 5 rebounds, and Jayson Tatum had 18 points and 7 rebounds for the Celtics, who can eliminate the Pacers on Sunday in Indianapolis.“We’re all making sure we’re giving each other confidence and doing the little things to ensure we win,” Irving said. “When you have that type of camaraderie, executing is a lot easier. Now that the stakes are higher, we’re settling into who we want to be.”Tyreke Evans matched his career playoff high with 19 points for Indiana, and Bojan Bogdanovic had 15, not enough to prevent the Pacers from losing their sixth straight to Boston in the regular season and the playoffs.The Celtics’ defense again turned the game, allowing just 12 points in the third quarter, as they put the Pacers on the brink of their second series sweep in three years.Indiana had erased a 15-point first half deficit to take a 61-59 halftime lead, and Myles Turner opened the third with a 3-pointer for the Pacers. But Boston charged back with 8 straight points to retake the lead and closed the quarter with a 9-2 run to make it 80-73.Boston gave up 8 points in the third quarter of Game 1 and 12 in the fourth quarter of Game 2.RAPTORS 98, MAGIC 83 Pascal Siakam had 30 points and 11 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard added 16 points, and Toronto held off host Orlando to take a 2-1 lead in their Eastern Conference first-round series.Siakam was 13 for 20 from the field, and the Raptors held Orlando to 36 percent shooting. Terrence Ross led Orlando with 24 points, and Nikola Vucevic shook off a slow start to finish with 22 points and 14 rebounds.Game 4 is Sunday night in Orlando.The Raptors trailed, 61-60, midway through the third quarter before going on a 16-0 run over the next four minutes to take the lead for good.Kyle Lowry’s 3-pointer with 7 minutes 48 seconds left gave Toronto its biggest lead, 86-69. The Magic rallied, and Ross’s 3-pointer with 41 seconds left cut the deficit to 96-93.Leonard was short with a jumper on the next possession, but the Magic could not control the rebound. Leonard made two free throws with 12.9 seconds remaining to make it a two-possession game again, and that closed the scoring.Orlando, which finished the regular season by winning 13 of its final 14 home games, was 13 of 44 from 3-point range.THUNDER 120, TRAIL BLAZERS 108 Russell Westbrook had 33 points and 11 assists and Oklahoma City won at home against Portland to cut its Western Conference series deficit to 2-1.Paul George added 22 points, Jerami Grant had 18 and Dennis Schroder 17 for the Thunder, who will host Game 4 on Sunday night.Damian Lillard scored 32 points for the Trail Blazers, but he had just 3 in the fourth quarter after scoring 25 in the third. C.J. McCollum had 21 points, and Enes Kanter added 19.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOSTON — A poor third quarter did the Indiana Pacers in during Game 1 of their first-round series with the Boston Celtics.In Game 2, Boston seized on a fourth-quarter collapse by Indiana.Kyrie Irving scored 37 points and Boston rallied late in the fourth quarter to beat Indiana 99-91 Wednesday night and take a 2-0 lead in the best-of-seven series.Coming out of a timeout and with a chance for Indiana to tie, the Pacers' Wesley Matthews threw an inbounds pass into the bench on the other side of the court with 12.1 seconds left. On the ensuing play, the Celtics' Al Horford passed to Jayson Tatum, who was fouled on a two-handed dunk. He completed the three-point play to make it 97-91 with 8.8 seconds left.The Pacers turned it over again and the Celtics were able to close out the game at the free throw line.Tatum scored 26 points, including his thunderous dunk down the stretch to help punctuate a 10-0 run by Boston over the final five minutes.Irving said being able to have this kind of performance at TD Garden after sitting out the playoffs last season wasn't lost on him."It's just been a long journey," Irving said. "From having those two knee surgeries and watching the team last year and finally getting chance to lace them up for the Boston Celtics in the NBA playoffs — it's nothing like it."After scoring only eight points in the third quarter of Game 1, the Pacers scored only 12 points in the fourth of Game 2."It's always been one quarter that kills us in the second half," Thaddeus Young said. "We're getting good looks and shots are not falling. ... We gotta put together a 48-minute game and we haven't been able to that."Bojan Bogdanovic led Indiana with 23 points. Young added 15 points. Myles Turner finished with six blocks.Game 3 is Friday in Indiana.Darren Collison scored seven points during a 10-0 run that gave the Pacers a 70-58 lead in the third quarter as turnovers began to pile up for the Celtics.Indiana led 79-68 entering the fourth. Horford opened the final period scoring on a hook shot in the lane and Tyreke Evans responded with a 3-pointer on Indiana's first possession.But then Boston got hot, using a 16-0 run, including eight straight by Irving, to take an 86-82 lead with 5:04 to play. Indiana missed 10 straight shots during the run, finally breaking a nearly eight-minute scoring drought with a 3-pointer by Matthews in front of the Celtics' bench.Bogdanovic hit a 3-pointer from virtually the same spot as Matthews to put the Pacers back in front. Gordon Hayward responded with a jumper, before Bogdanovic hit another 3 over Horford that made it 91-89 Pacers with 2:16 remaining.Following an Indiana miss, Tatum connected on a 3-pointer from the corner. And after Horford blocked Bogdanovic at the rim, Tatum found a cutting Hayward for a layup and the Pacers were undone by their late turnovers."Missed a couple of good looks. Held them under a 100. The defense was still there. They made more timely baskets than we did," Matthews said.Horford was a game-time decision with an illness but was able to remain in the Celtics' starting lineup. He was noticeably a step slower at the outset and didn't' take his first shot until late in the second quarter. He didn't score his first points until the fourth, finishing with four points, 10 rebounds and four assists for the game."It wasn't just about putting points on the board, it was just about doing the little things," Irving said. "It was a gritty win."TIP-INSPacers: Were outrebounded for the second straight game 41-32.Celtics: Coach Brad Stevens received a technical foul in the third quarter. It marked just was just third of the season.BETTER STARTAfter both teams struggled from the field in Game 1, they combined to hit 10 straight shots to open Game 2.The Pacers shot 65 percent in the first quarter, but were just 7 for 20 from the field and 0 for 7 from beyond the 3-point arc in the second. The Celtics seized on it, outscoring them 23-17 in the quarter and taking a 52-50 halftime lead.PATRIOT SUPPORTSeveral New England Patriots were in attendance for Game 2. Among those in attendance were coach Bill Belichick, reigning Super Bowl MVP Julian Edelman, Devin and Jason McCourty, Sony Michel and Duron Harmon.UP NEXTThe series shifts to Indianapolis for Game 3 on Friday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. PlayoffsBy The Associated PressThe Boston Celtics have been at their best this season when they are forcing turnovers, spacing the floor and knocking down outside shots.They found out in their win at home against the Pacers that they were equipped to win an ugly, physical game as well.Irving and Marcus Morris each scored 20 points, and the Celtics rallied in the second half to beat the Indiana Pacers, 84-74, on Sunday in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.Jayson Tatum finished with 15 points for fourth-seeded Boston, and Al Horford added 10 points and 11 rebounds, and Gordon Hayward had 10 points. It was the first playoff game since 2017 for Irving and Hayward after each missed last year’s postseason with injuries.“I just try to be aggressive on the ball, be in the right spots,” Irving said. “I just really want to be aggressive and really be the head of the snake.”Game 2 is Wednesday night in Boston.The fifth-seeded Pacers led by 11 points in the first half but had just 8 in the third quarter. The Celtics capitalized and led by as many as 22 in the fourth. Indiana finished with a season-worst 29 points in the second half.Cory Joseph had 14 points for the Pacers, and Bojan Bogdanovic was their lone starter in double figures with 12 points.Both teams shot worse than 40 percent from the field. Boston hit just 36 percent (28 of 77) and had 20 turnovers. Indiana connected on 33 percent of its shots (28 of 84) and turned the ball over 13 times.The Celtics’ 84 points were their fewest of the season; it was the first time Boston scored fewer than 100 points and won.“We held them to 84 points,” Indiana’s Wesley Matthews said. “We just didn’t score enough.”BUCKS 121, PISTONS 86 Giannis Antetokounmpo had 24 points and 17 rebounds in just 24 minutes, and top-seeded Milwaukee routed eighth-seeded Detroit in their East opener.Antetokounmpo ran and dunked all over the visiting Pistons, who caught him only when center Andre Drummond shoved him to the ground late in the third quarter after Antetokounmpo grabbed an offensive rebound with Detroit trailing by 41 points.Drummond was given a flagrant 2 foul and ejected. He threw a kiss to the Fiserv Forum crowd as he was escorted off the court.Antetokounmpo struggled at the free-throw line, making only five of 12 attempts, but was 9 for 17 from the field and 1 of 5 from 3-point range.Luke Kennard paced the Pistons with 21 points off the bench, and Drummond had 12 points and 12 rebounds. Detroit played without forward Blake Griffin, who has a left knee injury.TRAIL BLAZERS 104, THUNDER 99 Damian Lillard scored 30 points and third-seeded Portland opened its Western Conference series against sixth-seeded Oklahoma City Thunder with a win at home.Enes Kanter added 20 points and a career playoff-high 18 rebounds for the Blazers, who are making their sixth straight postseason appearance but had lost eight games in a row over the previous two postseasons. C J McCollum added 24 points.Russell Westbrook had 24 points, 10 assists and 10 rebounds for his ninth career postseason triple-double. Paul George, who was a game-time decision because of a sore shoulder, added 26 points and 10 rebounds after a slow start.Portland led by as many as 19 points in the first half, but the Thunder pulled to 80-77 early in the fourth quarter. Oklahoma City could not get closer, and Lillard hit a 30-footer to extend the Blazers’ lead to 89-81 with 6 minutes 38 seconds left.Westbrook appeared to hurt his right knee or ankle and grimaced while trying to walk it off. Trainers attended to him on the bench at the next timeout but he returned and his layup closed the gap to 91-87 with just under four minutes left.ROCKETS 122, JAZZ 90 James Harden had 29 points and 10 assists to help host Houston rout Utah on Sunday night in Game 1 of their Western Conference series.The fourth-seeded Rockets had a double-digit lead for most of the game, but the fifth-seeded Jazz pulled to 5 behind midway through the third quarter before Houston used a big run to pull away. Rudy Gobert had 22 points and 12 rebounds for the Jazz.It is the second consecutive year these teams have met in the postseason; Houston eliminated Utah in five games in the second round last season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — The longest active streak of missing the NBA playoffs belongs to Sacramento, where general manager Vlade Divac has been trying to return the Kings to the league's elite over the last four seasons.Back when the slick-passing Serbian big man was in the paint, the Kings had quite the run. For his impact on the NBA as one of the pioneering Eastern Europeans, Divac was announced Saturday as one of the 12 honorees in the 2019 class of the Basketball Hall of Fame."We created something special there, the first day of training camp that led us," said Divac, who played for Sacramento from 1998-2004, with a peak in 2002 when the Kings lost to the Los Angeles Lakers in overtime of Game 7 of the Western Conference finals. "For six years, we were the most exciting team in the league and really played basketball the right way."The class will be enshrined at the Hall of Fame in Springfield, Massachusetts, on Sept. 6. Selected this year with Divac were NBA players Carl Braun, Chuck Cooper, Bobby Jones, Sidney Moncrief, Jack Sikma and Paul Westphal, NBA coach Bill Fitch, NBA contributor Al Attles, WNBA player Teresa Weatherspoon, the 1957-59 teams from Tennessee A&I and the Wayland Baptist University program.Divac, who was elected directly by the international committee, played 16 years in the NBA, including eight with the Lakers. The 7-foot-1 Divac had his jersey retired by the Kings after helping them start a streak of eight straight postseason appearances upon his arrival. They never advanced past the conference finals, a surge that coincided with the Lakers dynasty of Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal.One of Divac's fellow starters on those Kings teams was Chris Webber, who wasn't included in the class. Now an analyst for CBS Sports, Webber quickly sent Divac a congratulatory message after the announcement in Minneapolis at the Final Four."For the last five or six days when I found out I was going to be there, I was only hoping that he was going to be next me," Divac said. "I'm sure it's going to happen down the road, but it would be awesome if he was right next to me."Moncrief and Sikma, who were elected by the North American committee, were teammates with the Milwaukee Bucks from 1986-89. The seven-time All-Star Sikma, who won an NBA title in his second season with the Seattle SuperSonics, set a record with the Bucks in 1988 as the only center in history to lead the league in free-throw percentage at 92.2. Sikma is now a consultant with the Toronto Raptors, who are in second place in the Eastern Conference behind the resurgent Bucks."My hope is we get in the conference finals and we're facing the Bucks, and then I'll kind of keep my thoughts to myself a little bit," Sikma said, smiling.Moncrief was a five-time All-Star and two-time NBA Defensive Player of the Year in the mid-1980s for the Bucks, who lost in the Eastern Conference finals three times during his career. Moncrief also reached the Final Four in his final season at Arkansas, 1978-79, under coach Eddie Sutton, for whom he gave credit for instilling in him the fundamentals that carried him to professional success."You'd take a four-hour practice: three hours on defense. Seriously," Moncrief said. "And they wonder why I couldn't shoot when I got to the NBA! I didn't shoot. I just played defense."Weatherspoon, who was elected by the women's committee, was a five-time WNBA All-Star for the New York Liberty who was the first in the league to reach 1,000 points and 1,000 assists. She led Louisiana Tech to an NCAA championship in 1988.Jones and Westphal were the other players elected by the North American committee. Jones was an eight-time NBA All-Defensive first team pick and four-time All-Star with the Philadelphia 76ers, winning a title with them in 1983. Westphal was a five-time All-Star who won a championship with the Boston Celtics in 1974.Fitch coached in the NBA for 255 seasons, leading the Celtics to a title in 1981 and still holding the franchise's best winning percentage at .738. The other election by the North American committee was the Tennessee A&I teams that won NAIA championships in 1957, 1958 and 1959. The program now known as Tennessee State was the first to win three straight titles in any college division.Attles was a direct election by the contributor committee. He played for the Philadelphia Warriors from 1960-71 and later was a coach, executive and ambassador for the organization. Cooper, who died in 1984, was directly elected by the early African American pioneers committee. He was an All-American at Duquesne in 1950 and the first African American player drafted by an NBA team. Braun, directly elected by the veterans committee, died in 2010. He was a five-time NBA All-Star who won a title with the Boston Celtics in 1962.Wayland Baptist, elected directly by the women's veterans committee, was among the first women's programs to award scholarships. Under the guidance of coach Harley Redin, the small school in West Texas won 131 straight games from 1953-58 and 10 national championships overall.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDURHAM, N.C. — Zion Williamson is leaving Duke after one high-flying season to enter the NBA draft.Widely projected as the top overall pick in the June draft, the AP national player of the year announced his decision Monday.The 6-foot-7, 285-pound Williamson captivated all of college basketball with his freakish, once-in-a-generation athleticism, his energy at both ends of the floor and his omnipresent charisma.The Atlantic Coast Conference player and rookie of the year averaged 22.6 points — tied for the league lead with teammate RJ Barrett — and 8.9 rebounds. Along the way, he became the face of college basketball this season, routinely coming up with at least one highlight-reel play or show-stopping dunk per game.His decision to turn pro came as no surprise. In fact, he spent the season greeting NBA chatter with a playful wink and a knowing nod.He said it would be "dope" to play on a hypothetical New York Knicks team with Kyrie Irving and Kevin Durant. Upon learning that LeBron James and Stephen Curry were talking about him during All-Star weekend, he responded that he's "hoping to be there competing against them next year."During his lone college season, he helped the Blue Devils earn the No. 1 ranking in the final AP Top 25 and the top overall seed in the NCAA Tournament. Duke was knocked out by Michigan State in the East Regional final.Now that he's headed to the NBA, one key subplot to follow is which sneaker company will land his endorsement.In one of the signature moments of the season, Williamson blew out his left Nike shoe — the PG 2.5, the signature shoe of Oklahoma City star Paul George — and sprained his right knee in the opening minute of what became a lopsided home loss to rival North Carolina.The impact was immediate — Nike's stock price took a hit the next day, and the shoe company sent a team of representatives to campus to investigate. When Williamson returned roughly three weeks later for the ACC Tournament, he wore a pair of modified size-15 Nikes from the signature line of Irving, a Boston Celtics All-Star and former one-and-done player at Duke.Williamson joins Cam Reddish and Barrett as classmates headed to the pros after one season. Point guard Tre Jones says he will return to school for his sophomore year.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOSTON — Terrence Ross had 26 points, Nikola Vucevic added 25 points and 12 rebounds and the Orlando Magic rallied past the Boston Celtics 116-108 on Sunday night to clinch their first playoff berth in seven years.Evan Fournier added 24 points for Orlando (41-40), which last made the postseason during the 2011-12 season. Sunday's victory also gave the Magic their first regular-season sweep over Boston since 1996-97.Even with the loss, the Celtics (48-33) clinched at least the fourth seed and home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs just before tip-off. That came courtesy of Brooklyn's win over Indiana.Kyrie Irving had 23 points for Boston. Al Horford finished with 18 points and Gordon Hayward added 16 off the bench.The Magic erased a 13-point first-half deficit and took an 83-78 lead into the fourth quarter. They kept it going, starting the final period on an 11-2 run, which included nine points by Ross.Boston responded with run of its own and tied the game at 106 on a 3-pointer by Irving with 2:50 remaining.The Magic kept attacking.Fournier got free in the lane and dunked over Terry Rozier to put the Magic back in front. The Celtics turned it over on their next possession. That was followed by an Aaron Gordon layup on the other end that made it 110-106.Celtics coach Brad Stevens said before the game that the Indiana outcomes wouldn't affect how much he played his starters against Orlando.But there clearly was interest in Boston's locker room beforehand, as evidenced in the television tuned to the Pacers-Nets matchup.As for his rotations, Stevens was true to his word and played his starters their normal minutes.It proved costly.Jayson Tatum limped off the court at the six-minute mark of the first quarter with a left shin contusion and did not return.Marcus Smart left with 6:15 remaining in the third, helped off by trainers and holding his left side after banging hips with Vucevic. He was diagnosed with a left hip contusion.Stevens will almost certainly rest both during Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.TIP-INSMagic: Vucevic had his 60th double-double of the season.Celtics: Hayward has now scored in double-figures in eight consecutive games.UP NEXTMagic: Regular-season finale at Charlotte Tuesday.Celtics: Regular-season finale at Washington Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe NBA rescinded technical fouls assessed to Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant and Los Angeles Clippers forward JaMychal Green on Friday after reviewing a call made during Thursday night's game.Durant and Green were exchanging words during the third quarter when the double-technical was called, stunning both players.The decision to rescind was announced from the league's @NBAOfficial account on Twitter.The change was good for Durant, as he already received two technicals earlier in the series. An accumulation of seven technicals during the postseason carries an automatic one-game suspension. He had lobbied for the technicals to be rescinded after Thursday's 132-105 victory.--Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, who missed Game 3 of his team's first-round playoff series against the Brooklyn Nets on Thursday night because of left knee soreness, is listed as doubtful for Game 4 on Saturday. The NBA announced his status in its injury report.Embiid's status has digressed from the first three games when he was listed as questionable. He continues to deal with left knee tendinitis, a problem throughout the regular season, when he missed 14 of the Sixers' 24 games after the All-Star break.Despite Embiid's absence in Game 3, the visiting 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory over the host Nets to take a 2-1 lead. Greg Monroe started in Embiid's place and collected nine points on 4-for-13 shooting and grabbed 13 rebounds. Game 4 of the best-of-seven will also be played in Brooklyn before the series shifts to Philadelphia on Tuesday.--The status of Detroit Pistons forward Blake Griffin remains uncertain entering Saturday's Game 3 of the team's Eastern Conference first-round series against the Milwaukee Bucks.Griffin missed the first two games with a left knee injury, and coach Dwane Casey didn't shed any light on whether the six-time All-Star will return on Saturday for the eighth-seeded Pistons, who lost the first two games of the series in Milwaukee by an average of 28 points."Day-to-day. I'm not talking about Blake," Casey told reporters after Friday's practice. "Day-to-day. Same old words. Just like I am on coaching -- day-to-day."--Former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue was scheduled to interview with the Los Angeles Lakers for their head coaching vacancy, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.The Lakers fired coach Luke Walton last week after three seasons and a 98-148 record.Lue, who previously served as an assistant coach for the Boston Celtics, L.A. Clippers and Cavaliers, became head coach in Cleveland during the 2015-16 season after David Blatt was fired.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersJayson Tatum buried a go-ahead 3-pointer with 50.8 seconds remaining Wednesday night, allowing the host Boston Celtics to overcome a late Indiana Pacers flurry and pull out a 99-91 victory in Game 2 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.With the fourth-seeded Celtics having successfully held serve on their home court to go up 2-0 in the best-of-seven set, the fifth-seeded Pacers will host Games 3 and 4 on Friday night and Sunday afternoon.Indiana blew a 12-point, fourth-quarter lead. However, the Pacers appeared primed to even the series when Wesley Matthews and Bojan Bogdanovic combined for three 3-pointers in a 70-second spurt, allowing Indiana to retake a 91-89 advantage with 2:16 to go.But the Pacers didn't score again, and the Celtics finally did when Tatum drilled his third 3-pointer of the game for a one-point lead in the final minute. The Celtics scored the game's final 10 points.Rockets 118, Jazz 98James Harden posted his third career postseason triple-double, and Houston recorded another rout of visiting Utah in Game 2 of a Western Conference first-round series.Harden totaled 32 points, 13 rebounds and 10 assists in the wire-to-wire victory. After Utah utilized an unorthodox defensive approach against Harden in the series opener, Harden exploded for 25 first-half points Wednesday on 8-of-15 shooting, including 5-of-9 accuracy on 3-point attempts.He finished 11 of 24 from the floor, 6 of 13 from long distance. Harden, however, did commit a game-high eight turnovers. The Rockets will take a 2-0 series lead to Salt Lake City for Game 3 on Saturday.Bucks 120, Pistons 99Giannis Antetokounmpo sparked the decisive run in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference first-round series, scoring Milwaukee's first seven points of the second half in a win over visiting Detroit.The top-seeded Bucks lead the best-of-seven series two games to none. Game 3 is scheduled for Saturday in Detroit, where the eighth-seeded Pistons will try to snap a 12-game postseason losing streak that dates back to 2008. That's tied for the second-longest postseason losing streak in NBA history, behind only the New York Knicks' 13 consecutive losses from 2001-12.Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points during a third quarter in which the Bucks outscored the Pistons 35-17. He also grabbed a team-high 12 rebounds.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy David WaldsteinCOLUMBIA, S.C. — To have one excellent left-hander on a basketball team is not uncommon. Bill Russell, David Robinson, James Harden, Manu Ginobili and Tiny Archibald are some of the most accomplished players with a dominant left hand.But to have two top left-handed players on the same team — two floor leaders capable of dominating games all by themselves — is something else entirely.Duke, a team often laden with unique talent, now features Zion Williamson and his fellow southpaw R. J. Barrett, the two best lefties in college basketball. Both are freshmen and destined for the top of this summer’s N.B.A. draft lottery, making their last few games together in the N.C.A.A. tournament a left-handers’ delight.“These guys would dominate with either hand,” the former Duke star Grant Hill said, “but it definitely adds another element.”Basketball is not like baseball, where left-handedness can be a virtue for pitchers and for hitters, some of whom learn to hit from both sides of the plate to gain an advantage. In hockey, players shoot one way or the other, and that tends to be it. In football, quarterbacks are known to throw strictly from one side or the other — at least until Patrick Mahomes completed a pass with his left hand last season.But in basketball — as in soccer and lacrosse — ambidexterity is encouraged. Larry Bird, the Hall of Famer from Indiana State and the Boston Celtics, was predominantly right-handed. But he was so good with his left hand that he once played a game in Portland shooting almost exclusively lefty, just as a challenge to himself, and he wound up with a triple-double.Williamson and Barrett have demonstrated they can use either hand, too. Williamson, for one, has gained attention for his thunderous dunks, and he does not discriminate when he goes above the rim. Many of his dunks have been with his right hand, or both. But two of his best stuffs this season — a windmill dunk against Indiana and a 360-degree slam against Clemson — were thrown down with his left hand.Barrett can be just as dominant. On Friday, he had 26 points and 14 assists against North Dakota State.“It’s great being left-handed,” Barrett said.According to several studies, 10 percent to 12 percent of the global population is estimated to be left-handed — give or take a few bullpen specialists and the odd lefty place-kicker. But Barrett and Williamson are not the first for Duke.After all, this is the college were Lefty Driesell played in the 1950s. And as recently as last year, Duke’s lefty big man Marvin Bagley III was taken with the second pick in the N.B.A. draft. But Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski does not discriminate.“It’s cool being right-handed, too,” Krzyzewski said.Barrett, who is listed as 6-foot-7 and 200 pounds, arrived at the N.C.A.A. tournament averaging 22.9 points and 7.5 rebounds a game. Williamson, a bruising but athletically gifted 6-7, 285-pound forward, was averaging 22.1 points, 8.9 rebounds and 1.8 blocks.That is a 1-2 lefty combo that has knocked out 30 opponents already. On Friday, North Dakota State asked the lithe 6-8 forward Deng Geu to cover Williamson at least some of the time. Geu said before the game that he was well aware that Duke showcased two dominant lefties, and the Bison’s scouting reports noted it clearly. Still, sometimes that most basic information can escape a defender, giving a lefty a microsecond advantage.“You go over the scouting report several times to get it locked in your head,” Geu said. “But once the ball goes up, sometimes you forget it.”Duke is not the only recent college team to feature a pair of dominant lefties. From 2014 to 2016, the 6-10 Domantas Sabonis and the 7-1 Przemek Karnowski gave Gonzaga a left-handed, twin-tower frontcourt. And one of the more prominent college basketball teams to feature a pair of lefties was St. John’s in the mid-1980s, with Chris Mullin and Walter Berry.That lefty duo led St. John’s to the Final Four in 1985, a feat Williamson, Barrett and Duke hope to match shortly. The former Georgetown coach John Thompson, whose team beat St. John’s in a national semifinal that year, said the Mullin-Berry combination might have been a tad more challenging to cope with because of their left-handedness. And Thompson knew all about defending lefties.As a player with the Boston Celtics, he was often assigned to guard Russell, the game’s most successful left-hander, during practices.“Russ was great no matter what, but I always thought it gave him a slight advantage,” said Thompson, who broadcasts tournament games for Westwood One Radio. “You are so used to covering a guy’s right hand, and then he goes up with the other hand, and it might give him that split-second he needs to finish.”Thompson also believes lefties have a slight advantage on defense, too, for the same reason. Opponents are not used to facing them.Hill, who played 18 seasons in the N.B.A. and in three national championship games with Duke, said left-handed players often gave him headaches. “When you are facing an elite left-handed player, you have to be really focused and locked in and guard them a little differently,” he said.Covering a superstar like Harden or Ginobili was never easy, he said. But even some left-handed role players, like Thaddeus Young, in particular, caused him grief.“Young used to give me problems,” Hill said. “You think, ‘Is it because he’s a lefty?’ I don’t know for sure, but I always wondered that.”Williamson and Barrett do not pose problems just because they are left-handed. But on top of all that size and talent, it’s just one more thing for teams to contend with.“It’s amazing to see,” Barrett said. “You don’t really know which way we’re going to go.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaKenny Anderson, a celebrated point guard from Queens who had a 14-year N.B.A. career, was hospitalized over the weekend after suffering a stroke.Lina Catalfamo Plath, a family spokeswoman, said via email that Anderson was recovering. Plath also released a statement from Anderson’s wife, Natasha.“We would like to thank everyone for reaching out on behalf of Kenny,” Natasha Anderson said in the statement. “Our family is extremely grateful for all the prayers and love that we have received over the last few days. We appreciate you continuing to respect our privacy as Kenny heals.”Anderson, 48, recently concluded his first season as the men’s basketball coach at Fisk University, a historically black school in Nashville that plays at the N.A.I.A. level.As a high school player at Archbishop Molloy, a powerhouse program in Queens, Anderson was one of the most prolific and high-profile players in the city’s rich basketball history. A McDonald’s All-American, Anderson set what was then a state scoring record with 2,621 points before enrolling at Georgia Tech, where he helped the team reach the Final Four in 1990.After Anderson spent two seasons at Georgia Tech, the New Jersey Nets made him the second overall pick in the 1991 N.B.A. draft — Larry Johnson went first to the Charlotte Hornets — and Anderson enjoyed a productive career that never quite lived up to the hype that had followed him since he was a teenager. He averaged 12.6 points and 6.1 assists a game while playing for nine teams, including the Boston Celtics and the Portland Trail Blazers, and was an All-Star selection for the Nets in 1994.A 2017 documentary on Anderson called “Mr. Chibbs” detailed many of his personal struggles, including bankruptcy and depression. In 2014, he traveled to North Korea as a member of the team that Dennis Rodman, the former Chicago Bulls forward, cobbled together at the invitation of Kim Jong-un, the country’s leader.“My mistakes weren’t really mistakes,” Anderson said in an interview with The New York Times in 2011. “It was being young and living and learning. Yes, I spent a lot of money; I went through a lot of money. I had some failed marriages — if you want to criticize me for that. You can’t cry about your mishaps. I count my blessings, I don’t count my mishaps.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHere are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Bradley Beal became the first player in Washington Wizards franchise history to average at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists for a season, reaching the numbers he needed in a 116-110 loss to the playoff-bound Boston Celtics in a finale Tuesday night that was meaningless to both clubs.Eliminated a while ago and bound for the draft lottery, the Wizards wound up 32-50, their most losses since going 29-53 in 2012-13. Team president Ernie Grunfeld was fired last week after 16 years in charge.John Wall and Dwight Howard both missed most of the season with injuries.Beal, a two-time All-Star, finished with 16 points, five rebounds and four assists — all before halftime — on Tuesday as he played in all 82 games for the second consecutive season.The Celtics already were assured of finishing as the No. 4 team in the Eastern Conference and facing the No. 5-seeded Indiana Pacers in the first round of the playoffs. They finished 49-33.So there was no reason for Boston to care about the outcome Tuesday — or, therefore, use any of its best players.Seven prominent members of the roster were ruled out: Kyrie Irving, Jayson Tatum, Gordon Hayward, Al Horford, Marcus Smart, Aron Baynes and Marcus Morris. That group includes six of the top seven Celtics in scoring and assists, the club's six leading rebounders.The starting lineup was Jaylen Brown, Terry Rozier, Semi Ojeleye, Guerschon Yabusele and Robert Williams. Ojele, Yabusele and Williams had a combined three starts this season before Tuesday.TIP-INSCeltics: Rozier scored 21 points. ... Signed G Jonathan Gibson. He played four games for Boston last season. "He gets buckets," coach Brad Stevens said.Wizards: Tomas Satoransky scored 19 points. ... Signed Gs Jordan McRae and Tarik Phillip. McRae was on a two-way contract this season, when he averaged 5.9 points, 1.5 rebounds and 1.1 assists in 27 games for the Wizards and led the NBA G League in scoring at 30.4 ppg for the Capital City Go-Go. Phillip played for the Memphis Hustle in the G League.WALL SPEAKSWizards PG Wall says he is not sure whether he will be able to play next season as he recovers from a torn Achilles tendon. "I have no idea just yet," Wall told reporters at halftime. "That's my goal."STEVENS ON VIRGINIA, BENNETTStevens, who led Butler to two runner-up finishes in the NCAA Tournament, was asked for his reaction to seeing coach Tony Bennett and Virginia go from last year's disaster — the first No. 1 seed to lose to a 16 — to this year's championship. "One of the coolest things I think I've seen in sports was Tony Bennett's reaction when they got beat last year and the way that he handled it," Stevens said. "And then to back that up with the year they had ... and for all those kids and for him and for everybody associated with the program to win all those games in the fashion that they did. ... Tony is a good friend and I am thrilled for him and for college basketball. I think he's about all the good stuff."UP NEXT:Celtics: Game 1 of their first-round series against the Pacers will be in Boston; day and time to be announced.Wizards: Season over. Time for a GM search and a rebuild.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAt the end of a dizzying frenzy of trades in the N.B.A., featuring 24 deals in one week, Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans stayed put — for now.Yet there was plenty of action to make up for the lack of a Davis trade, with two of the four title hopefuls in the Eastern Conference making significant acquisitions before Thursday afternoon’s trade deadline, intensifying the race at the top of the East after Philadelphia’s big trade earlier this week.In the most significant deadline-day deals, Toronto acquired the former All-Star center Marc Gasol from Memphis, while Milwaukee imported the sharpshooting forward Nikola Mirotic from New Orleans as part of a three-team deal that also involved Detroit.Those moves capped a wild seven-day stretch that began with the Knicks’ blockbuster trade of Kristaps Porzingis to Dallas and also included the 76ers’ acquisition of Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers. Philadelphia’s big swing to land Harris, who joined a starting lineup that already featured Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Jimmy Butler and JJ Redick, seemingly forced the Raptors and Bucks, who entered Thursday as the East’s second- and first-place teams, to make their own moves.Milwaukee, Toronto and Philadelphia, along with the Boston Celtics, are jockeying to become the first LeBron James-less team to represent the East in the N.B.A. Finals since 2010.The Sixers, at fifth in the conference standings, didn’t stop at their Harris trade, though. Shortly before the deadline, they made a surprising deal with the Orlando Magic to send the wayward guard Markelle Fultz — whom they selected with the No. 1 overall pick in the 2017 draft — for the small forward Jonathon Simmons and two future draft picks (one in the first round, one in the second).The Celtics, who entered Thursday in third, came away from trade season simply relieved that Davis had not been traded to the Los Angeles Lakers. After a nervy two weeks, during which the Celtics could merely watch because of an obscure league rule, they will now get an opportunity to make a run at Davis in the off-season — although Davis is said to remain adamantly against signing a long-term contract with the Celtics should they trade for him.The Celtics were ineligible to make in-season trade offers for Davis with Kyrie Irving still on their roster, since both Davis and Irving are currently playing under maximum rookie-scale contract extensions; league rules allow teams to field only one such player.The Lakers, however, were unable to persuade the Pelicans to surrender Davis during the exclusive negotiating window they had to pursue him in the wake of Davis’s Jan. 28 request to be traded. The front offices of Los Angeles and New Orleans had no discussions about Davis on deadline day, according to two people familiar with the talks, after negotiations broke down Tuesday over what the Lakers deemed to be exorbitant demands from New Orleans.Late Thursday, Pelicans General Manager Dell Demps confirmed that Davis would continue playing for the team rather than be held out to guard against serious injury in advance of the trade sweepstakes that will likely emerge closer to the draft. Davis had not played since Jan. 18 because of a finger injury followed by the team not wanting to risk an injury. Demps confirmed he would be back on the court soon.“Ultimately, Anthony made it clear to us he wants to play and he gives our team the best opportunity to win games,” Demps said in a statement.The Lakers on Thursday were left trying to recover from the instability wrought by their pursuit of Davis as they seek to make the playoffs in James’s first season in Los Angeles. They entered Thursday’s play at 27-27, good for just 10th place in the West, after falling to a humiliating 42-point defeat in Indiana on Tuesday night. The one-sided loss, against the Victor Oladipo-less Pacers, left little doubt that the mounting trade speculation surrounding the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma was taking a toll on the Lakers.When the Lakers couldn’t acquire Davis on Thursday, they did trade the Croatian center Ivica Zubac — who was among the promising young players mentioned as potential parts of a trade for Davis — along with Michael Beasley to the Los Angeles Clippers in a deal for forward Mike Muscala. The move opened a roster spot for the Lakers that will allow them to seriously consider signing the former All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony, but Los Angeles will have plenty of other options on the free-agent market as various veterans become available following the deadline.As the Davis talk cooled on Thursday, much of the focus leading into the deadline centered on the Grizzlies, who wound up trading Gasol but keeping their point guard Mike Conley, who had drawn serious trade interest from the Utah Jazz and Detroit Pistons.Conley, 31, has two seasons, with a combined salary of $66 million, left on his contract after this one, which convinced the Grizzlies that trading him closer to the draft in June might yield a better offer. Gasol, though, can become a free agent at season’s end, so Memphis had to trade him now or risk losing one of the game’s best two-way players without compensation this summer.Charlotte and Memphis engaged in serious trade talks regarding Gasol earlier this week, which prompted the Spaniard, who has only played for the Grizzlies — and who played his high school ball in Memphis after the Grizzlies imported his brother Pau Gasol from Spain — to clean out his locker.But Toronto, perhaps motivated by what the Sixers did and by the Bucks’ move for Mirotic, packaged Jonas Valanciunas, Delon Wright, C.J. Miles and a second-round draft pick in 2024 to add Gasol to a team straining to convince the All-Star forward Kawhi Leonard to make a long-term commitment when he becomes a free agent July 1.The Bucks, like Toronto, managed to upgrade their roster without surrendering a first-round pick. By expanding a Thon Maker-for-Stanley Johnson trade it had hashed out earlier this week into a three-team deal, Milwaukee landed Mirotic for the primary cost of four second-round draft picks, which were sent to the Pelicans, who also came away with Johnson and the veteran Jason Smith.The Knicks did not make another deal, one week removed from the Porzingis blockbuster that got the trade madness started, but they did set two veterans free to find deals on the postseason market. The outspoken forward Enes Kanter was waived, as was the newly acquired Wes Matthews — with Matthews immediately coming to terms with Indiana to join the Pacers after he clears waivers.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.C.A.A. Basketball TournamentBy Kelly WhitesideTAMPA, Fla. — The game was billed as old school versus new school. The bruising, defensive-minded bigs of the Baylor Lady Bears against the spread-the-floor, pick-and-roll, 3-point-launching Oregon Ducks.And there was Baylor’s powerhouse duo in the post — the 6-foot-7 Kalani Brown and the 6-4 Lauren Cox — versus Oregon’s state-of-the-art triple-double machine in the backcourt, Sabrina Ionescu.In a thrilling semifinal of the N.C.A.A. tournament, full of breakneck lead changes, old school triumphed. With a 72-67 victory on Friday, the top-seeded Lady Bears advanced to Sunday’s final and will play against Notre Dame, the defending champion, for their first national title since 2012. Baylor also won the title in 2005. Oregon, seeded second, was playing in its first Final Four.[Read about Notre Dame’s win over UConn in the other semifinal.]Brown finished with 22 points, and Cox had 21. Ionescu, the career leader in N.C.A.A. triple-doubles for men and women, finished with 18 points, 6 assists and 4 rebounds.“They have two of the best post players, obviously very tall, very athletic,” Ionescu said. “They were beasts inside. But we had to adjust and we didn’t.”Though the Lady Bears won on the strength of their superb post players, the clutch player in the waning moments was guard Chloe Jackson, a graduate transfer from Louisiana State. Jackson breezed by several defenders to hit the go-ahead layup with 41 seconds left. Brown and Cox sealed the victory with free throws.For Baylor, the Ducks were the first real challenge of this tournament. Entering the Final Four, the Lady Bears had rolled over their opponents by an average margin of 38.2 points. This game had 12 lead changes and 12 ties.Despite the different styles of play, Baylor Coach Kim Mulkey did not see the matchup as simply old school versus new. She said her team could adapt to whatever style was needed.“You change and you run offenses based on what your kids are capable of doing,” Mulkey said as her young grandson, Kannon, sat on her lap during a news conference after the game. “I think that’s why we get post players, because people whose daughters are big, they don’t want to sit there and rebound and kick a ball out to 3-point shooters all night, set screens for 3-point shooters all night. I think with the post players, they involve our perimeter players. We don’t have to shoot a lot of 3s.”After being held scoreless in the first quarter, Ionescu, the most dynamic player in the game, took over. With seconds remaining in the first half, she dribbled behind the 3-point arc and let loose a shot with Baylor’s best defender, DiDi Richards, as close as the number on her Ducks jersey.As her right arm lingered in the air, Richards smacked it hard, sending Ionescu to the floor. Still on the ground, Ionescu turned and stared down Richards with a look that could launch a thousand memes. Enough was enough.By the end of the half, Ionescu had a dozen points and Oregon had a 34-33 lead.But Brown and the Lady Bears would not be denied. This was the moment Brown had dreamed about.“The feeling is unreal,” she said. “I’m still in shock. I’m overwhelmed.”Mulkey has talked repeatedly about wanting to see Brown rewarded with a championship in her senior year.The coach has known Brown since she was considerably smaller. Brown’s mother, Dee, played at Louisiana Tech when Mulkey was an assistant there. Mulkey took over as the coach of Baylor in 2000.Brown’s other parent is P. J. Brown, whose 15-year N.B.A. career ended with his first title in 2008, when he was with the Boston Celtics. Brown was in the arena the night her father hoisted the Larry O’Brien Trophy. Now she hopes to hoist her own.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyCHARLOTTE, N.C. — For the first time since his left sneaker split open 30 seconds after tipoff of a game last month, the Duke superstar Zion Williamson took the court on Thursday night, helping his team to an 84-72 victory over Syracuse in the quarterfinals of the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament.Showing no signs of the knee injury sustained when his shoe exploded, Williamson dominated the game, scoring 29 points as he made all 13 of his shots from the field. He also had 14 rebounds, five steals and a block.“I come ready to kill every game,” Williamson told ESPN after the game.He continued with this theme later in a news conference and dismissed suggestions, which arose after the injury, that he might not return to the Duke lineup and would instead rehabilitate his knee and just prepare for the N.B.A. draft in June.“Everybody has their right to their own opinion,” he said, “but I knew I was coming back the whole time.”Duke (27-5), which struggled in Williamson’s absence, will meet its archrivals, the North Carolina Tar Heels (27-5), in a Friday semifinal. The third-ranked Tar Heels have won this season’s two previous matchups against the No. 5 Blue Devils, though Williamson missed most of the first showdown — when his Nike sneaker came apart — and all of the second.Williamson won the opening tip-off and scored the Blue Devils’ first points on an inside layup. Barely two minutes had gone by when he brought Duke fans in attendance to their feet, intercepting a Syracuse pass and taking it all the way to the other end for a thunderous dunk.Later there was another steal-and-dunk. And nine rebounds. And five steals. And that was just in the first half, when Williamson led all players with 21 points on 9-for-9 shooting.As Syracuse kept the game close in the second half, Williamson kept refusing to miss, while showing essential energy on defense.And if you were wondering: Williamson wore Nikes on Thursday, a model named for the Boston Celtics star Kyrie Irving, who played one season at Duke. The sneaker that split was a Paul George signature Nike.“The shoes were incredible this game,” Williamson said afterward.Williamson’s wardrobe malfunction — and the related knee sprain — had kicked off a round of soul-searching about the influence of shoe companies in college sports and the N.C.A.A.’s amateurism rules.It also presented a more immediate problem for Duke: A national title contender, the Blue Devils were suddenly without their best player, the freshman who is expected to be the No. 1 overall pick in the N.B.A. draft.Before Williamson’s injury, the Blue Devils were 23-2 and ranked No. 1 in the country. In the three weeks between then and tipoff against Syracuse, they dropped to No. 5 while going 3-3, including the loss to the Tar Heels on the night of the sneaker disaster.Duke announced hours before Thursday’s game that Williamson would return against Syracuse (now 20-13), which had beaten Duke in Durham, N.C., at a time when the Blue Devils’ star was healthy.With Williamson at full strength or even close to it, Duke should be a favorite to win the national championship, which would be its first since 2015 and the sixth of Coach Mike Krzyzewski’s career.Duke is also nearly a lock to be no lower than a No. 2 seed in the national tournament bracket, though by the time the field is announced on Sunday, the selection committee might have extrapolated Duke’s power with a healthy Williamson forward and slotted it as a top seed.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe Philadelphia 76ers made a bold move in the early hours of Wednesday morning to try to seize control of the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference by trading for Tobias Harris, the Los Angeles Clippers’ dynamic forward.In his second trade this season for a player who can become a free agent in July, Philadelphia General Manager Elton Brand surrendered two future first-round picks and two second-round picks in a six-player deal. The clear headliner, though, is Harris, who will join Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, J.J. Redick and Jimmy Butler, November’s acquisition, in what threatens to be the league’s most potent starting lineup outside of Golden State.The cost for Philadelphia was significant. The Sixers gave up their first-round pick in 2020 and an unprotected first-round pick in 2021, which they have from the Miami Heat, along with Wilson Chandler, Mike Muscala and Landry Shamet, a rookie guard. In return, Philadelphia will receive Harris, Boban Marjanovic and Mike Scott.“We are in a unique position to contend now, and we think this trade positions us well for the postseason,” Brand said in a statement.Philadelphia entered Wednesday’s play as the East’s No. 5 seed at 34-20, six games behind Milwaukee (39-13). The Sixers’ twofold challenge now will be establishing a chemistry among its new five-man core in the 28 games left before the playoffs and then re-signing Harris and Butler this summer after making two of this season’s biggest trades to get them.Harris emerged as an All-Star contender for the Clippers this season by averaging 20.9 points and 7.9 rebounds per game. His move to Philadelphia gives the Sixers another much-needed shooter (.496 from the field and .434 from 3-point range) alongside Redick.In making this trade, the Clippers ultimately decided that the draft picks Philadelphia offered were too valuable to pass up as they prepare for a big summer in which they are widely considered to be the league’s strongest threat to lure Kawhi Leonard away from the Toronto Raptors in free agency.The Clippers, at 30-25, have been one of this season’s surprise teams and sit at No. 8 in the Western Conference. But earlier this week, they also were named as one of four teams that Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans is willing to sign with long-term. This deal adds two more potentially enticing trade chips for the Clippers to offer the Pelicans for Davis — who has requested a trade — or to use in pursuit of other elite players.With Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline approaching, teams across the league, especially Philadelphia’s top rivals in the East, are running out of time to make their own moves to try to keep pace.The Boston Celtics, according to numerous reports, have been urging the Pelicans not to trade Davis until after the season, since league rules prevent Boston from trading for Davis while both he and Celtics guard Kyrie Irving are playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. The Toronto Raptors, meanwhile, have reportedly expressed trade interest in the very available Memphis Grizzlies duo of Marc Gasol and Mike Conley.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCount Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James among those who were stunned by team president Magic Johnson's resignation on Tuesday night. But according to ESPN's Ramona Shelburne on Wednesday, James still stands behind the organization and Lakers owner Jeanie Buss.ESPN also reported that head coach Luke Walton participated in exit meetings with the players on Wednesday. Walton's job security is in jeopardy after the Lakers (37-45) missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season despite the offseason signing of James to a four-year, $154 million deal.James, 34, battled injuries and appeared in a career-low 55 games and averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists per game in 2018-19.--Following his meeting with Walton, James headed to New York, where he, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony watched Dwyane Wade play his final NBA game. The Miami Heat closed out the season against the Brooklyn Nets.After a pregame video tribute to Wade, the retiring superstar went over and hugged each of his three friends. The four have been friends for years, their bond immortalized by a photo of James, Wade and Paul riding a banana boat together while on vacation in 2015. Anthony was not in the picture but was also on vacation with the group.--Boston Celtics guard Marcus Smart has a torn left oblique and could miss the first two rounds of the Eastern Conference playoffs, according to a report from ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski.Smart averaged 8.9 points, 4.0 assists and 2.9 rebounds this season for the Celtics, who will be the fourth seed in the East after posting a 49-33 regular-season record. Boston will open at home this weekend against the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers. The physical guard is noted as one of the NBA's top defenders.Smart sustained the injury in a game against the Orlando Magic on Sunday, and he did not play in Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.--Anthony Davis acknowledged that despite his desire to leave New Orleans, he could begin the 2019-20 season with the Pelicans."I'm under contract still," Davis said during an informal season-ending news conference. "I have a year left. Obviously it's a possibility it could happen. I don't have ill will toward anybody. I know that it's a possibility that next year I could be here as well. So I can't be mad if I'm here next year."Davis said his next step will be to see who emerges as the general manager for the Pelicans. Dell Demps was fired in February after his handling of the Davis situation, and Danny Ferry is the interim general manager.--The Phoenix Suns have hired longtime NBA general manager Jeff Bower as their vice president of operations, Wojnarowski reported.Bower, 57, was general manager of the then-New Orleans Hornets from October 2005 to July 2010, and he also served as the team's head coach for most of the 2009-10 season after the firing of Byron Scott.The Suns have been without a general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.--The Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.Saunders, 32, is the youngest head coach in the league. He took over when Tom Thibodeau was fired in early January and has earned the endorsement of his players, most notably from All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.The Timberwolves were 36-45 entering Wednesday night's season finale at Denver, including a 17-24 mark under Saunders' leadership. Saunders reportedly will receive a three-year deal with a team option on the final season.--The Timberwolves also announced that guard Jeff Teague underwent successful debridement surgery Tuesday to clean out his left ankle. The team had no additional updates as to any recovery timetable.Teague played in 42 games for the Minnesota this season, averaging 12.1 points and a career-best 8.2 assists in 30.1 minutes. The team shut him down for the season in mid-March.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAnthony Davis has informed the New Orleans Pelicans that the Knicks are one of four teams he would be willing to sign with for the long term if he is dealt before Thursday’s trade deadline, according to a person with knowledge of his intentions who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.Davis, one of the league’s superstars in his seventh season in New Orleans, is the biggest name in play in advance of the deadline. He requested to be traded Jan. 28, with the Los Angeles Lakers pushing hardest to get a deal done.The Lakers, along with the Knicks, Los Angeles Clippers and Milwaukee Bucks, are Davis’s preferred trade destinations as he seeks a new home on a team that already has an established star or a path to acquiring multiple stars, according to the person, who was not permitted to discuss the plans publicly.The list of teams, though, is clearly topped by the Lakers. It was first reported Monday by The Athletic and ESPN.It is believed that the list of teams was given to the Pelicans in hopes of increasing the chances Davis is dealt this week. New Orleans has considerable incentive to delay trading Davis until closer to the draft in June, when the Boston Celtics — who are not on the list but have the biggest cache of trade assets for Davis — are eligible to trade for him.While Kyrie Irving is on the Celtics’ roster, Boston cannot trade for Davis since both he and Irving are under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. League rules only allow teams to have one such player on their rosters.ESPN has reported that the Celtics are urging the Pelicans to hold onto Davis until after the season to give them an opportunity to top the Lakers’ best offer, which is expected to feature the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma as well as future first-round draft picks.Even with the Lakers seemingly established as Davis’s most likely landing spot, the Knicks’ presence on the list provides a glimmer of hope in what has been a difficult season, especially over the past week, for Knicks fans. As The Times first reported, the Knicks traded their star forward, Kristaps Porzingis, to the Dallas Mavericks last week in a move that appears largely aimed at clearing cap space to make way for high-profile free agents this summer.Yet with the worst record in the league (10-42), and after years of dysfunction, the Knicks cannot be certain they will pique the interest of any of the notable players expected to be free agents this summer, such as Kevin Durant, Irving and Kawhi Leonard.Trading for Davis is realistically only possible if the Knicks win the draft lottery in May and are then willing to trade the No. 1 overall pick to New Orleans for the draft in June. But the Knicks will hope that Davis’s interest and the mere prospect of trading for him can make them a more attractive destination for the league’s top free agents.Though he has missed New Orleans’ last seven games with a finger injury, Davis is in the midst of another outstanding season. In 41 games, he is averaging career highs in points (29.3), rebounds (13.3) and assists (4.4) per game.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressINDIANAPOLIS — The Boston Celtics keep following the same game plan.Three games into their first-round playoff series, it's still working.Another dominant second-half defensive performance Friday night helped the Celtics retake control of the game and another late scoring run helped them pull away from Indiana for a 104-96 victory and a 3-0 series lead."We've come a long way," All-Star guard Kyrie Irving said. "We're all making sure we're giving each other confidence and doing the little things to ensure we win. When you have that type of camaraderie, executing is a lot easier. Now that the stakes are higher, we're settling into who we want to be."While the names and numbers seem to change on a daily basis, the results have remained strikingly consistent.The Celtics turned Game 1 by limiting Indiana to eight third-quarter points and won by 10. In Game 2, the Celtics erased a double-digit deficit by allowing just 12 fourth-quarter points as they won by eight. This time, it was a 12-point third quarter that swung the momentum, leading Boston to its sixth straight win over Indiana — all since January.If they can do it one more time Sunday, last year's Eastern Conference runner-ups will be headed to the conference semifinals."In Game 4, we expect (Indiana) to take it to another level," Jaylen Brown said after scoring 23 points. "We've got to come out and not take our foot off the gas. We've got to come out and play great basketball and try to close this thing out."It seems Boston has an answer for every adjustment the Pacers make.With the league's best defense focused on holding Irving in check Friday, Brown went 8 of 9 from the field and grabbed seven rebounds Jayson Tatum added 18 points and seven rebounds and Irving was still productive with 19 points, 10 assists and five rebounds.For Indiana, it has been a nightmare of a series.After charging back from a 15-point first-quarter deficit to take a 61-59 halftime lead, Myles Turner opened the third with a 3-pointer to give the Pacers a five-point lead. Tyreke Evans matched his playoff career high with 19 points, 12 in the second quarter.But then the Celtics did it again.When Indiana's offense bogged down in the third, Boston scored eight straight points to retake the lead, closed the quarter on a 9-2 run and delivered the final blow with a 10-4 spurt late in the fourth to make it 98-92."In the third quarter, we lost our patience," Pacers coach Nate McMillan said. "We took quick shots, bailed them out, and lost our rhythm."TIP-INSCeltics: Tatum also had seven rebounds while Al Horford finished with 16 points and eight rebounds. ... The Celtics finished 15 of 34 on 3s after making 8 of 10 in the first quarter. ... Boston scored 41 points in the first quarter, the most Indiana has allowed in the first in its NBA playoff history. The Lakers set the previous mark, 38, during the 2000 NBA Finals.Pacers: Bojan Bogdanovic scored 15 points and Thaddeus Young had 11 points and nine rebounds. ... Domantas Sabonis finished with 12 points, seven rebounds and six assists while Myles Turner scored 13 points, matching his total from the first two games of the series. ... Wesley Matthews had 11 points and Darren Collison scored 10. ... Indiana went 11 of 30 on 3s after making 8 of 15 in the first half. ... The Pacers committed no turnovers in the second quarter. ... Indiana now faces its second sweep in three years after never previously being swept in a best-of-seven series.RETURN ON HOLDAll-Star guard Victor Oladipo was expected to return to Bankers Life Fieldhouse for Game 3. Instead, bad weather in Florida prevented him from making it back.Oladipo hasn't appeared publicly in Bankers Life Fieldhouse since he was wheeled off the court on a stretcher with a ruptured quad tendon in his right knee In January. His presence was supposed to give the Pacers an emotional boost.The Pacers have not said if Oladipo will return for Game 4.THEY SAID ITCeltics: "I think he's fine. Turns out if you play 16 straight minutes, it cure all ills," Celtics coach Brad Stevens said when asked about Horford's availability for Game 3.Pacers: "It comes down to the third quarter. We've just got to figure out how to get off to a better start," Evans said.UP NEXTGame 4 is Sunday in Indianapolis.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinCHARLOTTE, N.C. — The New Orleans Pelicans abruptly fired Dell Demps, their general manager, on Friday amid continuing uncertainty about the future of forward Anthony Davis.In an announcement Friday, the team said that the Pelicans and Demps “decided to mutually part ways” after discussions that morning.Gayle Benson, the Pelicans’ owner, made the move after New Orleans defeated Oklahoma City at home on Thursday, according to two people who were not authorized to discuss the decision publicly.ESPN described Benson as “livid” with widely circulated television footage of Davis leaving the arena in the second half of Thursday’s game after suffering a shoulder injury, although it was later reported that he had left to undergo an M.R.I. exam.Davis arrived in Charlotte on Friday for All-Star Weekend, hoping to play in Sunday’s All-Star Game if his shoulder recovers sufficiently.Benson had been contemplating an in-season change in the front office for weeks, to start plotting a new course for the franchise without Davis, according to the two people with knowledge of the situation.Benson owns the Pelicans and the N.F.L.’s New Orleans Saints and had Demps reporting to Mickey Loomis, the Saints’ general manager. Danny Ferry, a Pelicans executive who has been a general manager in Cleveland and Atlanta, will serve as Demps’s interim replacement.It is uncertain how the change will affect the long-term future of Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry, who has won plaudits for guiding the team through the Davis saga and for largely serving as the team’s spokesman during the drama.Gentry, however, had trouble stifling his frustration after the Oklahoma City game, telling reporters of the Davis situation, “To tell you the truth, this whole thing has been a dumpster fire.”New Orleans hired Demps in July 2010. He handled the complicated exit of Chris Paul via trade in December 2011 and drafted Davis No. 1 overall in June 2012. He also traded for Jrue Holiday, a highly rated guard, and, in his biggest move, negotiated a deal for center DeMarcus Cousins, then with Sacramento, during the 2017 All-Star Weekend in New Orleans.The Pelicans, though, made the playoffs just three times in Demps’s eight seasons and have consistently suffered from a lack of depth in support of Davis and Holiday. New Orleans appeared to be trending in a good direction last season, with Davis flanked by Cousins and Holiday, but Cousins sustained a season-ending Achilles’ tendon tear in January 2018 that ultimately led to his departure through free agency last summer.Plagued by a steady stream of injuries this season, New Orleans has not been able to match its performance last season: a 48-34 regular-season record even after losing Cousins and a first-round playoff sweep of the Portland Trail Blazers.Davis, through his agent Rich Paul, requested a trade Jan. 28 when he informed the Pelicans that he would not sign a five-year, $240 million contract extension the club can offer him July 1. The request came just 10 days before the league’s annual trade deadline, leaving little time to construct a trade with sufficient return for a player of his caliber.But New Orleans immediately made it clear that it intended to keep Davis through the deadline and into the off-season, when other teams — the Boston Celtics in particular — would be in a better position to make a compelling offer.Davis is under contract through next season, but it has been widely anticipated throughout the league that New Orleans would have to trade him as soon as it was clear Davis planned to reject an extension.N.B.A. players are not allowed to openly seek trades, and Davis was fined $50,000 because Paul went public with his client’s request.In an interview Thursday with a small group of reporters, Charles Barkley, the Hall of Famer and outspoken TNT commentator, blasted Davis and Paul for the timing of the trade demand. Barkley said Davis’s winding up with the Lakers has been a likely outcome from the moment Davis hired Paul as his agent in September. Paul also represents LeBron James, the Lakers’ superstar.“At some point Anthony Davis is going to be with the Lakers,” Barkley said. “The fix is in. I actually got a call from Rich Paul. I said: ‘Dude, the fix is in. You know he’s going to the Lakers.’“This is a bad situation,” Barkley said. “This is a bad look for the N.B.A.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The Los Angeles Lakers described last weekend’s N.B.A. All-Star break as an opportunity for a much-needed reset, with the hope that they could ultimately make a playoff push after spending a few days apart. None of it sounded very convincing.But when the team reconvened for practice on Wednesday morning, LeBron James said his level of intensity had been “activated,” as if he were a superhero who had flipped a switch. He does not usually activate himself this early in the season, he said, but the Lakers need all of him now — in large part because they had lost so much ground when he was sidelined for about a month with a groin injury.“We would have loved to have had success when I was out, but we didn’t, so this is where we are right now,” James said.And when asked how he would elevate the play of his younger teammates, he put it simply: “We don’t have a choice.”In other words, it was sink or swim for the Lakers before their game against the Houston Rockets on Thursday night, and there would be no lifeguard.For one night, at least, the Lakers swam. They were cohesive enough to come away with a 111-106 victory against one of the better teams in the Western Conference. For one night, at least, the Lakers showed that they could erase a 19-point deficit by playing solid defense and making their free throws. For one night, at least, the Lakers could depend on players like Brandon Ingram (27 points, 13 rebounds) and Kyle Kuzma (18 points) to deliver in a game that the team really needed to win.The question now is whether the Lakers, who at 29-29 are the very definition of average, can build off it. Consistency has not been their hallmark.“It can give us some momentum that we need,” Coach Luke Walton said, “or it can do nothing. It depends how we respond to this.”Not so long ago, the Lakers had a similarly galvanizing win — or so it seemed.It was Feb. 7, and before the league’s trade deadline Magic Johnson, the team’s president of basketball operations, had failed in his quest to ship nearly half of the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans in exchange for the All-Star center Anthony Davis. It was a huge soap opera, and the Lakers responded in surprising fashion: by going out that night and defeating the Boston Celtics — on the road, no less.The win, though, was fool’s gold. The Lakers got pulverized by the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, then hobbled into the All-Star break with a loss to the Atlanta Hawks — a performance so devoid of energy that it seemed to signal a dysfunctional locker room, and maybe even one that was beyond repair.The team was below .500.Walton encouraged his players to reflect and refocus over the break. For James, that meant returning to Los Angeles in playoff mode — much earlier than he would prefer.But this is unfamiliar territory for James, a three-time champion who has made 13 straight trips to the playoffs and eight straight appearances in the N.B.A. finals. Now, with an inexperienced batch of teammates on the Lakers, he is merely fighting to lead them into the postseason.“I’m all about being uncomfortable,” he said this week. “I love being uncomfortable. I fall in love with being uncomfortable, so this is another uncomfortable thing for me, and I love it.”Then he must have loved what happened against the Rockets (33-25), who built a gaping lead in the third quarter behind James Harden. But the Lakers dominated the fourth quarter by limiting the Rockets to 36.8 percent shooting and forcing six turnovers. James finished with 29 points, 11 rebounds and 6 assists.“He’s had more of a serious focus on his face, about him, the last two days, even in the practice facility,” Walton said, adding: “I think he recognizes where we’re at and the sense of urgency we need to play with.”The Lakers also benefited from the fresh presence of Reggie Bullock, a versatile wing whom they acquired from the Detroit Pistons at the trade deadline. Bullock scored 14 points and defended the Rockets’ James Harden for long stretches. For a team that lacks much experience, Bullock could make a difference moving forward.“He’s a vet,” James said. “It’s great to have a shooter of his caliber, of his size; his competitive nature out on the floor. He was big for us.”The Lakers left Staples Center two and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final playoff spot in the West. But James expressed supreme confidence as the team prepared to visit the Pelicans on Saturday.“I like where I’m at,” he said. “I will love where I’m at in the next few games, and I believe — continue to get better and better.”As for his teammates — well, that is up to them.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAnthony Davis has the Knicks on equal footing with the Los Angeles Lakers as he considers what teams he would be willing to join on a long-term deal after securing a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans, according to two people with knowledge of Davis’s thinking.A trade to any team did not appear imminent Wednesday night, as Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline drew near. But Davis’s recent request to be traded did not include a demand that the move happen before the deadline, according to the people, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the situation publicly.The Knicks have won only one playoff series over the past 18 seasons and their public image has suffered under the ownership of James L. Dolan. But the lure of playing in one of the league’s most attractive markets along with the way the Knicks have positioned themselves to pursue marquee free agents after trading away their franchise player, Kristaps Porzingis, have resonated with Davis, according to the people.The Lakers had been aggressively trying to complete a trade for Davis with the Pelicans before the deadline, because the Boston Celtics — who have been planning a trade run at Davis for months — cannot trade for the All-Star forward while Kyrie Irving is on the Celtics’ roster. (Davis and Irving are both playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions; league rules preclude teams from fielding more than one such player.)The Lakers, however, backed out of trade talks for Davis on Tuesday, according to The Los Angeles Times. ESPN reported Wednesday night that there had been no communication Wednesday between New Orleans General Manager Dell Demps and Lakers President Magic Johnson.The Knicks, who unsuccessfully attempted to interest New Orleans in a Porzingis-headlined trade for Davis last month, could still make offers for Davis up to Thursday’s deadline. But they might fare better after the draft lottery in May, when the Knicks’ position in the June 20 draft is cemented.Thanks in part to the Porzingis trade, the Knicks have amassed seven first-round picks over the next five years to go with a core of promising young players headlined by Kevin Knox and the newly acquired Dennis Smith Jr. Skepticism permeates the Knicks’ fan base as the team appears headed toward its sixth successive non-playoff season, but their trade assets position the Knicks to make a legitimate run at Davis before a big free-agent summer. In the off-season, the Knicks plan to use the significant salary-cap space opened by the Porzingis deal to pursue marquee free agents such as Golden State’s Kevin Durant and Irving in Boston.The Knicks are aware of Davis’s strong interest in playing in New York, according to the people. Either way, though, Davis is leaning toward playing out his current contract and becoming a free agent in July 2020 no matter where he is traded.Since Davis lodged his trade request on Jan. 28, there have been numerous reports that he is not willing to sign a long-term contract with the Celtics, but Sports Illustrated and the Boston Herald were among the news media outlets to report this week that Celtics officials had urged the Pelicans to hold off on trading Davis until the off-season, insisting that Boston could produce an offer that would trump any competing proposals.The Los Angeles Clippers and the Milwaukee Bucks are the other two teams, along with the Lakers and Knicks, with whom Davis has indicated a willingness to sign for the long term.Davis has missed six games with a finger injury but was seeking to play in both of New Orleans’ games this week. The Pelicans, however, opted to hold Davis out while working on trades and have not yet disclosed whether they plan to allow Davis to return to the lineup if he is not traded this week. Davis, according to a person with knowledge of his thinking, would like to play out the season with the Pelicans if no trade materializes before the deadline, despite the fact that the injury risk would be significant for both player and team.The trade saga has rocked both the Pelicans and the Lakers. Los Angeles suffered a 42-point defeat Tuesday night amid the constant speculation about the Lakers trying to package Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma with draft picks to acquire Davis with a goal of pairing one of the game’s best big men with the LeBron James. Both Davis and James are represented by the agent Rich Paul.Despite having missed 14 games through injury, Davis is in the midst of another outstanding season. In 41 games, he is averaging career highs in points (29.3), rebounds (13.3) and assists (4.4) per game and has been selected by Western Conference coaches to appear in the Feb. 17 All-Star Game in Charlotte.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaPaul George has a small freshwater pond behind his house in Oklahoma City that he stocks with bass, crappie and bluegill. Whenever he has a couple of hours to spare from his responsibilities as a do-everything forward for the N.B.A.’s Thunder, he heads out back with his fishing rod. He releases what he catches — for now, anyway.“Waiting for them to get a little bigger,” he said.George has time. Last summer, on the first night of free agency, he agreed to re-sign with the Thunder on a four-year, $137 million deal. The news emanated from a house party that Russell Westbrook, his superstar teammate, was hosting for George, who did not even entertain meetings with rival teams. He was sticking with the Thunder.In doing so, George made clear that he was banking on his partnership with Westbrook while offering endorsements of the organization and of Oklahoma City’s leisurely pace. He can fish. He can raise his two young children in a quiet neighborhood. And he can focus on basketball, knowing that his future is with the Thunder.“You can give your everything to one organization, and you know the direction that you’re going,” George said in a recent interview. “There’s so much that players have to deal with that I don’t think people quite recognize. A lot of them are the same issues that everybody else deals with. But this takes a lot of the burden off my shoulders.”There is something to be said for (relatively) stress-free living. As several other stars careen toward free agency this summer — and grapple with the accompanying distractions with varying degrees of success — George, 28, has been playing the best basketball of his life.He is averaging 28.2 points, 8.1 rebounds and 4.2 assists, all career highs, while shooting 44 percent from the field and 39.1 percent from 3-point range. He is at least in the conversation for his first N.B.A. Most Valuable Player Award.“I think the shift I’ve seen,” Coach Billy Donovan said, “is a guy who’s a lot more comfortable.”George has been limited recently by shoulder soreness, and Oklahoma City has slipped a bit in the standings. But the Thunder are capable of being a force in the playoffs, and they appear to be a close-knit group. One reason: Oklahoma City is not exactly flush with “extracurriculars,” as George put it, so the players tend to linger at the practice facility. They spend a lot of time together, which has helped build chemistry.“And if one person has to go do something, there’s always someone else who’s like, ‘I’ll tag along with you,’” George said. “That’s kind of been the culture here.”George was traded to the Thunder before the start of last season, after he told the Indiana Pacers that he would not sign a contract extension. Most figured that Oklahoma City would be a pit stop for George, who grew up in Palmdale, Calif., about 50 miles north of Los Angeles. More to the point: He had told the Pacers that he wanted to be shipped to the Lakers.Indiana balked and instead dealt him to Oklahoma City, where George averaged 21.9 points and 5.7 rebounds last season. After Oklahoma City lost in the first round of the playoffs, George was a free agent. He could have gone nearly anywhere, including to the Lakers.“I had so many phone calls and people asking me what he would do when it was all still up in the air,” Tom Hegre, his former coach at Knight High School, said in a telephone interview. “But I personally felt that he would stay with the Thunder. I just didn’t think he would bail on something before he gave it a legitimate chance.”Hegre also said he suspected that Oklahoma City itself had something to do with George’s decision. Even now, after six All-Star appearances, George is a small-town guy and a self-described “homebody.”Back in his high school days, George and his father would occasionally ask Hegre if the team was planning to practice over the weekend. Hegre knew that meant they were thinking about going fishing. They had their favorite spots: Hughes Lake, Lake Elsinore, Lopez Lake, Little Rock Reservoir.“I always thought that was pretty cool,” Hegre said.George has never played in a major market. Not in high school (Palmdale). Not in college (Fresno State). And not in the N.B.A., which may not be a coincidence. When he was with the Pacers, George lived in a suburban community with a large lake, where he kept a boat. He fished there, too.At the same time, his exit from Indiana affected him. It was the first time he felt disliked by the masses, and he was someone who had always tried hard to avoid disappointing or hurting people, said Steve Cleveland, his former coach at Fresno State.When George told Cleveland that he was entering the N.B.A. draft after two seasons at Fresno State, he was apologetic — and so were his parents, who kept apologizing even after George began to star for the Pacers.“I had to say, ‘Stop it,’” Cleveland said. “But that’s the type of people they are.”He added: “I’ve never really asked him this, but I’m sure leaving Indiana was a pretty sensitive deal for him. And I don’t think he wanted to go through all that stress again.”It is not hard to find big-time players who have come unglued at times because of their impending free agencies. Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors boycotted the news media for a couple of weeks. Kyrie Irving of the Boston Celtics has complained about the steep price of celebrity. For his part, George blamed “the press” for being a disruptive force in locker rooms.“Everything gets blown up,” he said. “Everything is a big deal.”It is no small feat, then, that George has found a home with the Thunder — and calm waters in Oklahoma City.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideTAMPA, Fla. — After dominating Sunday’s N.C.A.A. championship game for three quarters, Baylor was in an unexpected position against Notre Dame, fighting for the lead and doing so without one of its top players. And the Irish had the ball in the hands of their best player.In the closing seconds, with a chance to tie the game, Arike Ogunbowale, a player known for coming through in big moments, was on the free-throw line. When she missed her first shot, she threw back her head in disbelief.She planned to hit the rim for the second free throw, with the hopes of a rebound and a last-gasp shot. Instead, it went in. As the buzzer sounded, Baylor celebrated a 82-81 victory and a title.It’s the Lady Bears’ third national championship and their first since blowing out the Irish in the 2012 final. Only Connecticut (11) and Tennessee (eight) have more in the N.C.A.A. era.All season long, Baylor (37-1) thrived on the dominance of its post players. Against Notre Dame (35-4), the bigs once again came up — well — big. Time after time, the 6-foot-7 Kalani Brown turned on the left block for layups or the 6-4 Lauren Cox followed with a rebound.But with 1 minute 22 seconds remaining in the third quarter, Cox came down awkwardly from an attempted rebound and crumpled to the floor grabbing her knee. Her screams filled the quieted arena. The team’s trainer ran to her aid, and Coach Kim Mulkey draped her body over her sobbing player. Cox left the court in a wheelchair, and with that, Baylor had lost its second-leading scorer, top rebounder and top shot blocker. At that point, the Lady Bears led by 62-50.The Irish proceeded to cut the lead to 3 early in the fourth quarter, and it was a tie game with 4:55 remaining.“When she went down, we got a little rattled,” Brown said.After the game, Mulkey was in tears, full of heartbreak and joy. “She’s the heart and soul of this team,” Mulkey said of Cox.Baylor point guard Chloe Jackson added, “We had to finish the job for her.”Jackson entered the game averaging 11.3 points. In the final game of her circuitous career, she scored 26. With 28.6 seconds left in the game, she hit a crucial jumper to give Baylor an 80-78 lead.Then with 3.9 seconds left and the score at 80-80, Jackson, a graduate transfer who was thrust into the starting lineup at a new position, drove through the lane for the decisive basket.“Jackson was having a day,” Notre Dame Coach Muffet McGraw said. “We were actually trying to guard her. She just got a lot of really good shots, shot over us, went by us, scored in pretty much any way. Really, really stepped up in the big moment.”Jackson began her career at North Carolina State but fractured her foot early in her freshman season, ending her year. She decided the Wolfpack offense was not a good fit and transferred to Louisiana State, sitting out another season because of N.C.A.A. rules. She was one of the Tigers’ top players, but during her time there, they did not advance beyond the first round of the N.C.A.A. tournament.“I wanted to win,” Jackson said about her decision to come to Baylor. She had never played point guard at this level until this season. “I wanted Coach Mulkey to push me to become the best player that I can be, and she’s really done that. I couldn’t have written a better story.”The Lady Bears got off to a searing start, shooting 67 percent from the field in the first quarter, preventing the Irish from settling into their potent transition game. Notre Dame struggled to recover, trailing by 43-31 at the half.Baylor, the top overall seed, entered the tournament having lost only to Stanford, in December. The Lady Bears exerted their dominance throughout the tournament, rolling over opponents by an average margin of 38.2 points in their romp to the Final Four. In the semifinals, Baylor survived a potential upset against Oregon by frustrating the Ducks’ sharpshooters and dominating inside.With Sunday’s win, Baylor thwarted Ogunbowale and Notre Dame’s hopes of winning back-to-back titles.Notre Dame had returned every player from last year’s team and featured four seniors in the starting lineup along with the junior guard Jackie Young, who is eligible to enter the W.N.B.A. draft.In last year’s Final Four, Ogunbowale hit last-second shots to give her team victories in the semifinal and the championship game. Against Connecticut on Friday, Ogunbowale followed a 2-point first half with a 21-point second half. And against Baylor, the nation’s best big-moment player was energized once again, willing the Irish back into the game, only to come up just short while finishing with 31 points.“It’s tough. It’s tough,” Ogunbowale said about the missed free throw. “You can’t really do anything about that one.”As a result of Notre Dame’s comeback, the Lady Bears did not walk away with the dominant win it seemed they would at halftime. But for Brown, who had 20 points and 13 rebounds, it was a fitting end to a college career, and to her journey with Mulkey, whom she has known since grade school. Brown’s mother, Dee, played at Louisiana Tech when Mulkey was an assistant there.“Coach Mulkey has literally seen me grow up,” Brown said. Her mother coached her as a child, but she also learned from her father, the former N.B.A. player P. J.P. J. Brown’s career ended with his first title in 2008, when he was with the Boston Celtics. Kalani Brown was in the arena the night her father hoisted a championship trophy.Now she has one.“I left on a good note,” Brown said. “This is the best thing ever.”Mulkey calls Brown the “kindest, sweetest kid.” But when she arrived at Baylor, the coach said, she needed to embrace her size and learn to lean in, instead of blend in.“It’s O.K. to raise your voice and holler, ‘Give me the ball,’ ” Mulkey said.When the final buzzer sounded and the celebration began, Brown ran over to Cox, who was on the sideline with crutches. They hugged for a long time as the confetti fell.“We did this for you,” Brown told Cox. “We did this for you, babe.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThere's no LeBron James in these playoffs, so the NBA Finals will have a distinctly new look for the first time in nine years.There's no Tony Parker, for the first time in nearly two decades.There's no Dwyane Wade, and he'll never play a playoff game again.San Antonio is in the postseason for a record-tying 22nd consecutive season. Brooklyn, Denver, Detroit, Orlando and the Los Angeles Clippers got into these playoffs after watching the postseason last year.As always at playoff time, there are some familiar things and some not-so-familiar things. With the postseason set to begin Saturday, here's 10 things to know going into the best time of the NBA year:DRIVE FOR FIVEGolden State is trying to reach the NBA Finals for the fifth consecutive season.If the Warriors get there, they would be the second franchise ever with such a streak — joining only the Boston Celtics, who went there in 10 straight seasons from 1957-66.The Warriors are one of five franchises with a streak of four straight NBA Finals trips: the Los Angeles Lakers did it from 1982-85, the Celtics also did it from 1984-87, the Miami Heat did it from 2011-14 and the Cleveland Cavaliers did it from 2015-18.Golden State is also seeking its seventh championship in franchise history. That would put the Warriors in sole possession of third place on the NBA's most-titles list, behind Boston (17) and the Lakers (16).The Warriors and Chicago are currently tied for third with six championships each.BLOWOUT BUCKSMilwaukee had 45 double-digit wins this season, the most in the NBA.That's a really good omen for the Bucks.Only four teams in NBA history have posted more double-digit wins in a regular season than the Bucks this year. Those clubs are the 1971-72 Los Angeles Lakers (50), the 2016-17 Golden State Warriors (48), the 1970-71 Bucks (47) and the 1995-96 Chicago Bulls (46).All four of those teams went on to win the NBA championship.MR. 3000?Houston's James Harden scored 2,818 points in the regular season, which puts him on the cusp of joining a very elite club.If Harden scores 182 in the playoffs, that will give him a total of 3,000 — and he would be the 10th player in NBA history to score that many in a full season, postseason included. The others: Michael Jordan (10 times), Wilt Chamberlain (five times), Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Rick Barry, Elgin Baylor, Kobe Bryant, Kevin Durant, Bob McAdoo and Shaquille O'Neal.Durant was the last to do it, in 2013-14.LeBron James almost got into the club last year, coming as close as humanly possible — he scored 2,999 points for Cleveland.WELCOME BACKKawhi Leonard's last postseason appearance ended earlier than planned, when he hurt his left ankle while taking a jumper over Golden State's Zaza Pachulia in Game 1 of the 2017 Western Conference finals. Pachulia closed out aggressively, Leonard didn't have space to land safely and he missed the rest of that series.When Leonard left the game, he and San Antonio were up by 23. The Spurs lost that lead, lost the game, lost the series and Leonard never played a postseason second with the Spurs again after that bad landing.Toronto is hoping that Leonard can rekindle his typical postseason magic in his playoff return.Leonard enters these playoffs with a 32-game streak of double-digit postseason outings, averaging 24.1 points in those contests.STEPH RISINGWarriors guard Stephen Curry is on pace to catch Ray Allen and become the NBA's all-time 3-point leader sometime in the 2020-21 season.That stat only takes regular-season games into account. In the postseason, Curry is about to become No. 1.Curry has 378 career postseason 3s, good for No. 2 on the NBA's all-time playoff list. Allen is No. 1, with 385.PLAYOFF CASHThe 16 playoff teams are playing for the Larry O'Brien Trophy, for rings, for a parade ... and for a stake of $21,676,510.That's the amount of this year's NBA Playoff Pool — a record.Every playoff team is assured of some of the pie, which is often used to fund bonuses for players and team staff.So far, all 16 teams are due at least $323,506 each. Most have already clinched much more because finishing in the top six spots in each conference also comes with a bonus. For example, Milwaukee — because it had the best record in the NBA — is already due $1,495,750.Teams get an additional $384,930 for winning a first-round series. Conference finalists get another $638,094. The losing team in the NBA Finals gets another $2,543,681 and the NBA champs get one more payout of $3,838,798.Add it all up, and the Bucks could get $6,355,572 if they win the title. No other team can win that much.HOUSTON, A PROBLEM?Houston is the No. 4 seed in the Western Conference, and faces No. 5 seed Utah in the first round.History suggests the Rockets are in trouble.In each of the last seven seasons, and nine of the last 10, the No. 5 team in the West has beaten the No. 4 team in the first round.Utah has won each of its last five appearances in a 4-versus-5 series. The fifth-seeded Jazz knocked off Oklahoma City in 2018, the Los Angeles Clippers in 2017 and Denver in 2010. The Jazz were seeded No. 4 when they won a 4-versus-5 series in 2007 and 2008 — both of those coming against Houston.BOOGIE'S DEBUTDeMarcus Cousins is No. 1 on a list that nobody wants to lead.By this weekend, he'll be off the list entirely.Cousins has played in 565 regular-season games and zero postseason games. That'll change this weekend when he and Golden State play host to the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 1 of a Western Conference first-round series.No active NBA player has been in more regular-season games without a playoff appearance than Cousins. When he plays for the Warriors this weekend, and when Kyle O'Quinn — currently No. 2 on the list with 443 regular-season games without a postseason minute — plays for Indiana, the new active leader in games played without a postseason appearance will be Brandon Knight.He's played in 421 and is still looking for his first playoff outing.MILESTONE COMINGSometime in the next couple of months, the 4,000th playoff game in NBA history will be played.There have been 3,934 postseason contests so far. Based on the way last season went, the milestone game will come late in the conference-semifinal round or early in the conference-final round.FINALS STARTThis season's NBA Finals start May 30. It'll be the earliest Game 1 of the title series since 1986, when Boston and Houston opened their series on May 26.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Kennard scored 27 points off the bench and the postseason-bound Detroit Pistons closed out their regular season finale by walloping the host New York Knicks 115-89 on Wednesday.The Pistons (41-41) qualified for the Eastern Conference playoffs for just the second time since the 2009-10 season. They were swept by Cleveland in the opening round of the 2015-16 playoffs.Detroit will be the No. 8 seed and face top-seeded Milwaukee in the first round.Kennard's point total was one shy of his career high. Reggie Jackson had 21 points and Andre Drummond supplied 20 points and 18 rebounds for Detroit. Wayne Ellington tossed in 12 points, all on 3-point makes.Heat 113, Nets 94Dwyane Wade ended his storied career with a triple-double of 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists as visiting Miami was dealt a loss to Brooklyn, which clinched sixth place in the Eastern Conference.The Nets honored Wade with a video tribute in pregame introductions by highlighting some of his notable shots against them over the course of a 16-year career while the text on the screen read "Thanks for the Memories."With longtime friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony sitting courtside, Wade recorded his fifth career triple-double in his 1,054th regular-season game since entering the league as the fifth overall pick out of Marquette in 2003.Spurs 105, Mavericks 94LaMarcus Aldridge poured in 34 points and totaled 16 rebounds to help propel San Antonio to a resounding win over visiting Dallas in the regular-season finale for both teams.It was also the final game in the 21-year career of Dallas forward Dirk Nowitzki, who led Dallas with 20 points and pulled down 10 rebounds in 31 minutes of play before leaving the court for the final time with 47 seconds remaining.The win was San Antonio's third straight and -- combined with Oklahoma City's win over Milwaukee -- earned the Spurs the seventh seed in the NBA playoffs, where they will face the Denver Nuggets. Dallas, playing the second game of an emotional home-road back-to-back, had a two-game winning streak snapped and they will miss the postseason for the third straight season.Trail Blazers 136, Kings 131Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a season-high 37 points to lift Portland to a come-from-behind victory over visiting Sacramento.Skal Labissiere added 29 points and 15 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who trailed by as many as 28 points in the first half.Jake Layman, Meyers Leonard and Gary Trent Jr. scored 19 points apiece for Portland (53-29), which gained the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference and will face No. 6 Oklahoma City (49-33) in the first round of the playoffs.Nuggets 99, Timberwolves 95Jamal Murray hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 31.5 seconds left, and host Denver scored the final 15 points of the game to beat Minnesota to earn the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference.Nikola Jokic finished with 29 points and 14 rebounds and Murray scored 17 for Denver. The Nuggets (54-28) will play the San Antonio Spurs in the first round of the playoffs.Andrew Wiggins scored 25 points, Gorgui Dieng had 18 points and 11 rebounds and Cameron Reynolds added 19 points off the bench for the short-handed Timberwolves (36-46).Clippers 143, Jazz 137 (OT)With their respective playoff spots locked, Los Angeles and Utah ended their regular seasons in overtime, where the Clippers won to end a three-game losing streak.Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead the Clippers. Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Lou Williams scored 15 off the bench.Utah rookie Grayson Allen scored a career-high 40 points and Georges Niang scored a career-best 24 off the bench.Thunder 127, Bucks 116Dennis Schroder scored 32 points to help Oklahoma City earn the No. 6 seed in the Western Conference with a win at Milwaukee.The Bucks, who had already sealed the top seed in the Eastern Conference coming into the game, sat three starters -- Giannis Antetokounmpo, Eric Bledsoe and Brook Lopez -- to rest them for the playoffs.Milwaukee (60-22) will start the playoffs against the eighth-seeded Detroit Pistons (41-41). The Thunder (49-33) will open the playoffs against the third-seeded Portland Trail Blazers (53-29).Pacers 135, Hawks 134Edmond Sumner made three free throws with 0.3 seconds remaining to lift Indiana to a road win over Atlanta in the final regular-season game for both teams.Atlanta finished the season with a 29-53 record while Indiana (48-34) heads into the playoffs winners of only four of its last 13 games.The fifth-place Pacers will oppose the fourth-place Boston Celtics (49-33) in the first round of the Eastern Conference postseason.Magic 122, Hornets 114Terrence Ross came off the bench to score a season-high 35 points, and playoff-bound Orlando ended Charlotte's season.Ross scored 19 of his points in the first half, when the Magic led by as many as 13. He finished 12 of 19 from the field and 6 of 10 from 3-point range. Ross' performance overshadowed a 43-point explosion by Charlotte's Kemba Walker in the defeat.The Magic (42-40) remained the No. 7 seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs with the victory, and will face second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs.Grizzlies 132, Warriors 117Memphis dizzied visiting Golden State in the regular-season finale for both teams, parlaying a remarkable 86-point first half into a shocking win.The loss had no bearing on the playoff seeding for the Warriors (57-25). The two-time defending champions enter the postseason as the top seed in the Western Conference and they will open the playoffs against the No. 8 seed, the Los Angeles Clippers, who defeated the Utah Jazz, 143-137, in overtime Wednesday.The win allowed the Grizzlies (33-49) to avoid what would have been a second straight season of at least 50 losses. Rookie Jevon Carter scored 19 of his career-high 32 points in the first half, when the Grizzlies ran off to an 86-68 lead.76ers 125, Bulls 109Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points and Boban Marjanovic added 18 to lift host Philadelphia over Chicago.T.J. McConnell tied his career-high with 18, Zhaire Smith contributed 17 and Greg Monroe had 14 for the Sixers, who completed their regular season with a 51-31 record and the No. 3 playoff seed in the Eastern Conference. The Sixers finished 31-10 at home.The Sixers were extremely short-handed as numerous key players were held out for precautionary reasons as the playoffs are about to begin. All-Star center Joel Embiid, All-Star guard Ben Simmons, guard JJ Redick, forward Jimmy Butler and forward Tobias Harris were all held out.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaATLANTA — Kyle Kuzma had his first interaction with LeBron James a little more than a year ago, when Kuzma was a first-year forward with the Los Angeles Lakers and James was a few months from dragging the Cleveland Cavaliers to another appearance in the N.B.A. finals. Kuzma had reached out by phone, hoping for some tips.“Just wanted to see how one of the greats takes care of his body and has so much longevity,” Kuzma recalled this week in an interview. “Everybody wants to play basketball for as long as possible.”So much has changed since that initial conversation. Kuzma and James are teammates now, and Kuzma is experiencing the unique challenges that come with playing alongside one of the game’s behemoths. At the same time, James’s body finally betrayed him this season, which has only heightened the sense of urgency within the organization: The Lakers, who have missed the playoffs for five years running, are not in position for a patient rebuild.James, at 34, may still be in his prime, but the stakes are already high for a franchise that desperately wants to maximize his time in Los Angeles. And while neither James nor Lakers management has shown much enthusiasm for coaxing along a young core — the Lakers tried to ship half the roster to New Orleans last week — they are stuck in this together. James was supposed to be the savior of a flagship franchise gone astray; salvaging the final months of this year would be a key indicator that he still wields that type of power.“We have to approach the rest of the season just like you would during the playoffs,” Kuzma said.As Kuzma recalled his talk with James, he had no way of knowing that the Lakers were mere hours from suffering one final implosion before the N.B.A. All-Star break — a 117-113 loss to the Atlanta Hawks that left the team with a losing record and ample opportunity for soul searching.“It’s time for us to get away and reflect a little bit about where we are as a group,” Coach Luke Walton said. “I think this first part of the season, we’ve gone through a lot of adversity. And we’re probably not where we want to be, but we’re still close enough.”Close enough, that is, for vying for a spot in the playoffs, which was both an indication of the team’s modest goals and its sad reality. At 28-29, the Lakers are in 10th place in the Western Conference standings. It is unfamiliar territory for James, who has not been on a losing team this late in a season since he was a first-year forward with the Cavaliers.“But with LeBron on your team, anything is possible,” said Mychal Thompson, a power forward for the Showtime-era Lakers and an analyst for the team’s radio broadcasts. “I mean, look at some of the teams he’s taken to the finals — including last season. He’s capable of doing great things if you just get on board and run with him.”The Lakers, though, seem fragile after nearly five months of drama — all of it stemming directly or indirectly from the $154 million deal that James signed to join the team last summer. The pressure was on from the start, and little has gone according to plan.“There’s been more noise this year,” Walton said, “but that was to be expected with the moves in the off-season. That was something to be anticipated.”Where to begin? Brandon Ingram and Rajon Rondo were suspended for trying to brawl with the Houston Rockets two games into the season. Magic Johnson, the team’s outspoken president of basketball operations, chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting for the team’s slow start, igniting lasting questions about Walton’s job security. Nearly every player on the roster has been injured, and that includes James, who missed 17 games with a strained groin.And lest we forget: Last week, Johnson and General Manager Rob Pelinka tried to trade away nearly half the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans for Anthony Davis, who, before the start of the season, hired the same agent who represents James. It was the clearest sign yet that Johnson is willing to attempt the very boldest moves — no matter the residual damage.Consider that the Lakers, amid their ultimately fruitless effort to pry Davis away from the Pelicans, lost by 42 points to the Indiana Pacers. And with rumors of which Lakers would be traded swirling through social media, it was difficult to find arguments in their defense — even from James himself.Kuzma, who was offered up as one of the pieces in a potential deal, said it had been difficult to drown out the noise.“It’s definitely tough,” he said, “because this generation, you’re always on your phone, always on social media, always seeing it somewhere on TV.”But the trade deadline passed, and the roster more or less remained intact. There had been a sense that a surprising win against the Boston Celtics on Feb. 7 would galvanize the team in the wake of so much uncertainty. And even after losing to the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, the Lakers still had a chance to build some momentum against the Hawks on Tuesday.Before the game, James appeared to be in an upbeat mood. In the locker room, he knelt on a giant inflatable ball as he worked on some core-strengthening exercises. He crooned the lyrics to “Plug Walk” by the hip-hop artist Rich the Kid. He made small talk with Ingram. It was all vintage James.About three hours later, once the Lakers had punctuated their loss with a turnover, James made a beeline off the court and into the tunnel. He was practically steaming. He had finished with his fifth triple-double of the season — 28 points, 16 assists, 11 rebounds — but the Lakers’ defense was as porous as a coffee filter, and the result was just as messy.“I can throw that game in the trash,” James said.In a three-minute postgame session with reporters, Kuzma mentioned the concept of “fun” five times — specifically, the notion that the Lakers were not having much of it.“A lot of times we’re out there with sad faces, very focused faces,” Kuzma said. “But I think we’re at our best when we’re having fun.”Fun may not be the primary objective for James, and the psychic effects of the loss are sure to linger until at least Feb. 21, when their season will resume after the All-Star break with a home game against the Houston Rockets. For now, though, the best thing for these players may be to be away from each other for a while, which was one of Walton’s suggestions before they parted for the break.“Spend some time by yourself,” he said, and added: “I think we’ve got a group that will be ready by the time we get back.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballThe N.B.A. had its reasons for forcing New Orleans to play its superstar after a trade request, but the risk is not worth the reward.By Marc SteinCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Some of the most memorable scenes from the N.B.A.’s 68th All-Star Game played out away from the ball, both on and adjacent to the bench of the squad captained by LeBron James.Two very deep 3-pointers from Damian Lillard sparked a comeback from 20 points down that had some of the game’s biggest names bounding farther onto the floor in the celebration than the rules would ever allow in a game that counts. And in that same corner of Spectrum Center, another spectacle percolated: Anthony Davis, the disgruntled New Orleans Pelicans superstar, spending the entire second half as a rather forlorn spectator.Those close enough to see it simply couldn’t miss the contrast.Davis tested his freshly tweaked left shoulder in warm-ups, registered 5 points in five minutes and then opted for safety — and what passed for solitude — while a raucous rally unfolded around him. Led by Lillard and the All-Star M.V.P. Kevin Durant, Team LeBron climbed out of that huge hole to record a 178-164 victory over the team captained by Giannis Antetokounmpo. Yet it was a muted end to the league’s annual party weekend for the player whose future has generated more noise than anyone or anything in basketball since September. That’s when Davis hired the Klutch Sports agent Rich Paul — who is also James’s agent and one of the superstar’s closest friends — to precipitate a seemingly ceaseless stream of chatter about Davis winding up alongside James on the Los Angeles Lakers. That might still happen. Even though the league’s annual trade deadline has passed — and even with Davis revealing in a wild interview session Saturday that he is more open to being dealt to the Boston Celtics than had been previously described — no one is prepared to suggest that the Lakers are out of this trade chase.The firmest and smartest declaration to be made at this juncture is that Davis’s reverse layup and swished 3-pointer from the left wing Sunday night should be the last two shots he takes for the rest of the season. It is time for the Pelicans, league officials and Davis’s camp to collectively decide that the wisest move for all parties is to shelve The Brow for New Orleans’ 23 remaining games.Davis has every right, like countless All-Stars before him, to request a trade. The sport’s best have anointed James their muscle-flexing role model and are taking greater control of their futures than ever before. Why shouldn’t they if they have the juice?Once that happens, though, Davis’s team should be able to protect the franchise’s interests above anything else. New Orleans has not been granted that right.It emerged Jan. 28 that Davis, through Paul, informed the Pelicans that he would not be signing the five-year, $240 million contract extension they were planning to offer July 1, and that he wanted to be traded instead. New Orleans spent the ensuing 10 days before the trade deadline fielding offers for Davis — mostly from the overzealous Lakers — but did so knowing all along that the pool of worthy offers would be wider if they waited until June.When the deadline predictably passed on Feb. 7 with no deal, New Orleans was ordered by the N.B.A. to play Davis for the rest of the season — even though a precedent had already been set to give the team full control in similar cases involving Houston’s Carmelo Anthony and Memphis’ Chandler Parsons. Davis has played in four games since, routinely taking the proverbial air out of the Pelicans when he’s been on the court and, in his most recent appearance, injuring his shoulder.The Pelicans don’t want Davis in the lineup because of the gloom his ongoing presence spawns, but also to try to avoid a serious injury that could adversely affect his trade value. The N.B.A.’s position is that they differentiate between true game-changers like Davis and mortal players. It is my position that they absolutely should not.Two of the league’s main justifications in this case, after all, hold that the Pelicans would be willfully hurting the ticket-buying public by holding Davis out — and that the potential benefit New Orleans could realize in terms of improving its draft lottery odds in May violates “league rules governing competitive integrity.” Both ring increasingly hollow.The toxic atmosphere at New Orleans home games — where some customers were spotted last week wearing paper bags over their heads in a scene straight out of the depressing New Orleans ’Aints days of yesteryear — is suddenly such that playing Davis is also an affront to Pelicans fans. They know their face of the franchise no longer wants to be there.Rival teams, meanwhile, can whine all they want about the Pelicans supposedly trying to improve their draft pick in June by sitting Davis now. The truth is any team in New Orleans’ position, resigned to trading Davis and getting as much as possible in return, would want to put him in bubble wrap as quickly as possible.Davis made it clear Sunday night after his quiet cameo that he still wants to play out the season. As much as N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver wants the same, Silver conceded in an interview Sunday with ESPN Radio that the awkward dance resulting from Davis’s trade demand had indeed “become a distraction.”“It’s a very unhealthy situation for the team and, frankly, for Anthony as well,” Silver said.Call that the polite description. The TNT analysts Charles Barkley and Shaquille O’Neal, both of whom navigated their own complicated trade sagas as players, were openly critical of Davis and Paul throughout their All-Star duty.“I think they probably should have done it this summer and done it a little bit more quietly,” O’Neal said in an off-set interview. “Because now Anthony Davis is in a bad position. As a player, you never want the fans to think you don’t care.”Even after Davis hired Paul, I expected a scenario closer to what Shaq outlined. I thought Davis would play the season out to his fullest, inform the Pelicans he would pass on the extension and thus force them to trade him without ever explicitly requesting a trade. That approach seemingly would have meshed better with Davis’s reserved personality. The path he chose instead has made the previously beloved Davis an unlikely villain. That, too, shall pass with time. Paul George, Jimmy Butler and Kawhi Leonard are fellow elite talents who have found themselves labeled similarly over the past 18 months. After Davis is ultimately traded in July, it will eventually be someone else who becomes the N.B.A.’s villain.But July is a ways off. Although there’s no way to gain real distance from the Davis distraction until a trade materializes, Pelicans officials believe it can be tangibly diminished by sending him away for the rest of the season — especially with two of New Orleans’ first four games after the All-Star break coming against LeBron’s Lakers.There were strong signals in Charlotte that the Pelicans — with Danny Ferry now serving as their acting general manager in the wake of Friday’s firing of Dell Demps — intend to re-engage the N.B.A. this week in hopes of convincing league officials to rethink their stance about forcing them to play Davis.The N.B.A. Players Association would presumably get involved if New Orleans is successful, but I’d advise the Pelicans to hold firm. Take any fine that comes. The team has played better, scrappier ball without Davis anyway — and heaven forbid he suffers a serious injury in the regular season’s dog days. As opposed to a mere “dumpster fire,” to borrow New Orleans Coach Alvin Gentry’s term, that would leave both Davis and the Pelicans far worse off than forlorn. That would be the sports version of catastrophic.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy David Waldstein and Kelly WhitesideAnother wretched Knicks season has ended, but from its ashes a justifiable optimism is taking root. The Knicks have the money to add two star players this summer, and there is a growing buzz in the N.B.A. that they could acquire Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors and Kyrie Irving of the Boston Celtics, who can be free agents.With one of the top picks in the N.B.A. draft, optimism turns to giddiness. Could next season’s Knicks feature not only Durant and Irving but also Zion Williamson, Duke’s freshman sensation? Or will the Knicks trade their lottery pick for a standout like Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans?Such big names potentially brighten their future, but there’s another name that could make a difference: James L. Dolan.And so it must be asked: Will Dolan, the unpredictable and imperious owner of the team, find a way to mess it all up?Based on his two-decade history as owner, there is reason to wonder. For the second time in five years, the Knicks won only 17 games, a franchise low. This was also the sixth consecutive year the Knicks failed to make the playoffs, and the 12th time in the last 15 years. It’s a staggering level of impotence for a team that spends as much money as it does and has all the inherent advantages of playing in New York City at Madison Square Garden.That enduring failure, combined with Dolan’s public mistreatment of some fans, has led to a growing anger and skepticism in a disaffected, if dedicated, fan base.Watching the team spin its wheels seems part of the appeal or burden: The Knicks have committed more than $800 million in payroll over the last decade — not to mention millions more spent on a revolving door of high-profile executives — and they spend over the league salary cap each year as a matter of course. They also have averaged no fewer than 19,000 fans a game, no matter how bad they were.There are always appealing visiting teams to watch, and some seasons have started strong only to fizzle. But with such a crucial summer on the horizon, the thinking among fans and Knicks observers goes, perhaps not even Dolan can mess up this opportunity to forge a proven winner.“I wish he had a longer fuse when it comes to the fans,” said David Stern, the commissioner of the N.B.A. from 1984 to 2014. “There are some overreactions, but it will have nothing to do with free agency or how the team is run. That all falls on Steve Mills and Scott Perry. Him having a short fuse at times will have zero bearing on player signings.”Mills, the team president, has worked with Dolan on and off over the last two decades, and Perry is the general manager. They are the latest group that Dolan has entrusted to run the basketball side of the organization. (Others have included Isiah Thomas, Larry Brown, Donnie Walsh, Mike D’Antoni and Phil Jackson — all highly compensated and most of them successful elsewhere but unable to succeed under Dolan.)Dolan may be seen as the odious, impulsive and vengeful tyrant of the Garden, but Stern said Dolan desperately wanted a championship squad.“Jim has been on a crusade to get the best basketball people around him,” Stern said. “That’s what he thought he had with Phil and Isiah and Donnie, and what he thinks he has now with Steve and Scott.”But even with some of those well-respected men, Dolan was known to interfere in basketball decisions, particularly Walsh’s. Dolan has vowed to cease the meddling, and Mills says he has kept his word.“I keep him informed, but he does not get involved in what we do,” Mills said in a telephone interview last week.Dolan, however, did dictate to Mills which news outlets could be involved in some of Mills’s own news conferences. On two occasions this season, The Daily News, which Dolan and Madison Square Garden accused of being biased against them, was not invited, meaning Mills did not have total authority over everything to do with the Knicks.“Jim has strong opinions about the media,” Mills said, “and how he has been covered by the media and how we’ve been covered by the media. Really, my focus and what I have complete control over, how we build this basketball team — that’s what I lock into.”Dolan declined to be interviewed for this article.Several other executives who have worked closely with Dolan over the years but did not want to be named in order to speak candidly described a complex man layered with contradictory impulses and character traits.He can be irrational but also is fiercely loyal to certain people. He can be socially awkward and quite charitable but also unleash a volcanic temper on employees.He is said to worship his father, Charles, 92, the founder of Cablevision. But while Charles Dolan would carry lists of employees’ names in his pocket to help greet them and ask them about their lives, James Dolan is just as likely to walk past employees with barely a hello, associates said, and berate others in meetings. Many employees at the Garden simply try to keep their distance.Seth Abraham was the chief executive of Madison Square Garden for almost five years, until 2004, when Dolan was directly in charge of the Knicks, the Rangers and the Liberty. The two worked together closely.“He’s got the right mind-set,” Abraham said. “The issue is that he’s a zealot and his passion sometimes overwhelms him and the people who work for him. His passion is hot.”Certainly, some fans and charities have benefited from his generosity, while others have felt the sting of his wrath.Most notably, Dolan had security guards wrestle Charles Oakley, a former Knick and fan favorite, out of the building in 2017, an unpleasant scene that unfolded in front of thousands. And last month he had guards detain and then bar another fan from the building who had called out to him, “Sell the team!”Although Dolan may eventually sell the Knicks and the Rangers (he sold the Liberty), few think he will do so any time soon, especially when the fortunes of the team could be close to changing significantly. The Knicks are valued at $4 billion, the highest in the league, according to Forbes magazine.“Fans probably don’t like him because of the team’s record and because he didn’t engage much with them,” said Enes Kanter, the center who played parts of two seasons with the Knicks until he was released in February and is now on the Portland Trail Blazers, who are in the playoffs. “But if they knew him more directly they would probably like him more.”Kanter said the fans had the right to feel the way they did because New York City is a great city, but its basketball team has struggled historically. “They deserve a good team,” he added.They have not had one — a real good one — in 20 years, and the anger mounts. In fact, fear of a growing dissatisfaction among fans led to the Garden quietly limiting the amount of beer and alcohol that could be purchased at games late this season, perhaps a prudent decision considering the level of frustration in a fan base with little to cheer.Prudent decisions have not always been the norm with the Knicks. This is the organization that Stern once said was “not a model of intelligent management.” That comment came a dozen years ago, toward the end of an ugly time in the history of the organization, when a former Garden executive, Anucha Browne Sanders, sued the Knicks and Thomas for sexual harassment, and won in court.There is also a perception among fans and people in the league that prospective players want no part of the bungling Knicks because the team is mismanaged to a point where winning is nearly impossible. In 2015, the Knicks made offers to LaMarcus Aldridge, Greg Monroe and DeAndre Jordan, who was coming off two very productive seasons at the time, and all three signed elsewhere. The next year, the Knicks could not even get a meeting with Durant.Now the hope is that Durant has changed his mind, perhaps convinced that he and Irving or another top free agent could be the ones to lead the Knicks to their first title since 1973. But with the Dolan wild card, hungry Knicks fans cannot be sure.“He has cultivated an environment where N.B.A. guys don’t want to play there,” said Gary Horn, 57, a lifelong Knicks fan and screenwriter who grew up in New York and now lives in California. “But his grand flaw is that he has deputized people who don’t know how to draft young players.”A few years ago at the Chicago predraft camp, Mills said, players and their agents told him that they did not want to join the Knicks but said the reason was more about the Knicks’ strategy under the former executive Phil Jackson.“It was the organization, style of play, however you want to talk about it,” Mills said.Mills added that he and Perry were working hard to change the perception of the Knicks and that David Fizdale, the coach, was a draw for both players and fans by dint of his magnetic personality.Some fans are ready to believe the circumstances have aligned for a superteam.“If Durant thinks playing for the Knicks is what’s best for his business and branding goals,” Jonathan Macri, a fan and founder of the Knicks Film School, a website dedicated to the team, said, “Dolan’s reputation as an unpleasant, impulsive individual isn’t going to change that.”Kevin Draper contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Consider the following scenes from the N.B.A.’s annual bacchanal/business convention known as All-Star weekend:Spike Lee standing on a street corner waiting for the crosswalk signal. Stan Kroenke, whose family owns the Denver Nuggets, holding court in a hotel lobby. Joel Embiid, the star center of the Philadelphia 76ers, making small talk with the governor of North Carolina. An army of personal stylists waiting to be summoned by their clients for some of the flashiest events of the year.And then there were the agents and league officials and sneakerheads and reporters, some of whom traveled great distances to make unconventional requests of the weekend’s main attractions.“Shout out to my fans in Mongolia!” John Collins of the Atlanta Hawks yelled into a camera the morning before his appearance in the Saturday slam dunk contest.[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]All-Star weekend tends to be a blend of basketball and branding, business and pleasure — a showcase for a powerful league whose global influence continues to expand.“The whole weekend,” Mike Conley of the Memphis Grizzlies said, “is just a big party.”The All-Star Game itself, scheduled for Sunday night, felt secondary to just about everything else in the host city, as it has for many years. Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets, recalled waiting in line in 2006 for one of the more popular parties at All-Star weekend in Houston, where he watched Maciej Lampe — a center from Poland who appeared in 64 career games over parts of three seasons — bypass the line so that he could immediately be waved inside by security.“And I’m like, ‘Man, I’m behind Maciej Lampe?’” said Morey, who would officially join the front office of the Rockets a little more than six weeks later.All-Star weekend has only grown in recent years. One spreadsheet making the rounds in Charlotte listed more than 100 parties, and that did not include many of the more exclusive events. (Michael Jordan hosted a big one.) Thanks to a change in the league schedule, there is more partying and less deal-making than there used to be.Last year, the league moved the trade deadline up so that it preceded All-Star weekend. In the past, the deadline came a few days after the game, a sequence which helped create its share of absurdity. One of the more notorious examples came in 2017, when word leaked during the fourth quarter of the All-Star Game that the New Orleans Pelicans had struck a deal to acquire DeMarcus Cousins from the Sacramento Kings. Cousins learned of the trade during postgame interviews.The weekend vibe is different now.“It’s so much more fun,” one prominent agent said at a party that he hosted.In the corner, a disc jockey who appeared to be in his 60s spun tunes in a Hawaiian shirt and red-tinted glasses, while women wearing bright red dresses passed out hors d’oeuvres. Agents, clients and marketing honchos milled about the room.But none of this is meant to suggest that deals do not get done.On Thursday night, at a downtown hotel bar where patrons sipped $25 cocktails, a crowd of very tall men gathered as a private event wound down at a nearby steakhouse. Among the luminaries who emerged from the event: Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner; Kroenke, who also owns the Los Angeles Rams; Brian Rolapp, the N.F.L.’s chief media and business officer; Bill Simmons, the founder of The Ringer; Connor Schell, ESPN’s executive vice president for content; and Bob Myers, the general manager of the Golden State Warriors.“There are definitely conversations happening,” Morey said. “And there’s serendipity involved. You’re always bumping into people.”Morey was finishing lunch at an upscale restaurant. Warren LeGarie, a longtime agent to many coaches and executives, and Kiki Vandeweghe, the league’s executive vice president for basketball operations, were dining at nearby tables. Morey was about to head into a meeting with Vandeweghe and Monty McCutchen, who supervises the league’s referees.“Obviously, we care deeply about where the league is going,” Morey said, “so talking to Adam Silver about strategy or Monty McCutchen about changing how they might call certain things — all that kind of stuff could impact our franchise moving forward, so I try to be involved.”The atmosphere may seem more relaxed than it was two years ago, when most team executives and agents were focused on the trade deadline, but the shift in the schedule has not pushed aside the league’s most pressing issues.In Charlotte, a cloud loomed over the festivities, and it came in the shape of a unibrow.Perhaps you have heard? Anthony Davis, the star center for the Pelicans, requested a trade 10 days before the deadline.The Pelicans, though, rejected all trade offers for him and instead hope to reap better players and draft picks in a deal this summer. Last week, Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry called the drama of it all a “dumpster fire.” On Friday, the Pelicans fired their general manager. On Saturday, Davis told reporters that his list of preferred destinations included the Knicks and the Los Angeles Lakers. Hours later, Silver said he would like trade demands and discussions to remain behind closed doors.In any case, the Davis situation only underscored how much the topic of player movement dominates the league — even in the middle of the season, and even after the trade deadline. Everyone here was fixated on what could happen just over four months from now — at the start of free agency.Will Kevin Durant leave the Warriors? Will Kawhi Leonard spurn the Toronto Raptors? Will Kyrie Irving bolt from the Boston Celtics? And, again, what about Davis?“No one likes to see an instance,” Silver said, “where a player is demanding that he be traded when he’s still in the middle of a contractual obligation to a team.”Silver made those remarks, and his wish for private trade discussions, at a news conference before Saturday night’s skills, dunk and 3-point competitions.The media forum, like the carefully coordinated outfits stars wore to events around town, has become part of the event’s routine. So has the roll call of courtside A-listers during the dunk contest; this year’s included the rappers Quavo, 2 Chainz, J. Cole and Gucci Mane.All-Star weekend was not always so structured — or extravagant. Paul Westphal recalled making his first trip to an All-Star Game in 1977 as a guard for the Phoenix Suns. The league hosted a modest dinner. Players received commemorative mugs. Anyone associated with the game stayed at the same hotel in downtown Milwaukee.“It wasn’t like it is now where the game takes over the whole city,” Westphal said.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar missed practice, Westphal said, then showed up about 20 minutes before the start of the game in a fur coat. Westphal helped seal his team’s win with a late steal against Pete Maravich. It was a moment he said he would never forget.This weekend, Westphal was in Charlotte, where he was named a finalist for the Basketball Hall of Fame. He said he was not planning to attend any parties.“Just dinner with friends,” he said.In Charlotte, the streets around the host arena, Spectrum Center, were choked with traffic. Concert fliers hung from every lamppost. And none of the guests, spread among numerous hotels at premium nightly rates, seemed to mind the cold weather as countless lines formed for restaurants, bars and pop-up musical performances.Given all the extracurriculars, it was easy to forget that basketball was the only reason anyone was here in the first place — and perhaps that was because the only legitimate basketball was being played in a college gymnasium a few miles from downtown. A group of elite teenage prospects, without much fanfare, had convened for the league’s annual Basketball Without Borders Global Camp.In all, 63 boys and girls from 31 countries played in front of scouts and executives who hoped to identify the sport’s next batch of stars.“There’s a lot of talent here,” said Brooks Meek, the N.B.A.’s vice president for international basketball operations.The spotlight will find them soon enough.Kevin Draper and Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
Maybe they were never going to win a championship this season, even with LeBron James, but they were not supposed to be this bad. What happened?CreditCreditHarry How/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Marc SteinThe arrival of LeBron James as their latest in a succession of superstar imports was supposed to halt the longest period of suffering in the Los Angeles Lakers’ California history.What James and the Lakers have experienced instead will be remembered as the most disappointing season of James’s career — because it will extend a stubborn playoff drought that has flummoxed the N.B.A.’s most glamorous franchise.Not even James’s presence could prevent a sixth straight missed postseason for the new Lakers, who are mere days from being mathematically eliminated from the playoffs entering Sunday’s visit to Madison Square Garden to face the Knicks. The Lakers, remember, missed the playoffs only four times in their first 53 seasons after relocating from Minneapolis in the 1960-61 season.So much for Hollywood fairy tales.Perhaps expectations for this team were unrealistically high, given the modest quality of James’s supporting cast in Year 1, but his Lakerland debut was never supposed to veer this far off-script for a once-in-a-generation player. What follows is a breakdown of how things fell apart — in six stages.Without warning, on July 1, 2018, the first night of N.B.A. free agency, James announced through a 39-word news release that he was signing a four-year, $154 million contract with the Lakers.Yet the ensuing celebration did not last even 24 hours.On July 2, Golden State boldly swiped some of the Lakers’ thunder by signing the former All-Star big man DeMarcus Cousins to a bargain deal. The Lakers then spent the next week scouring the league for the best players willing to sign one-year contracts — thereby preserving salary-cap flexibility for the summer of 2019 and their planned pursuit of an All-Star sidekick for James.The problem: Magic Johnson and Rob Pelinka, the Lakers’ nascent front-office power duo, signed a slew of nonshooters and, shall we say, mercurial personalities who, as a group, prompted instant second-guessing.The Lakers countered the skepticism by insisting that playmakers and playoff-tested veterans, rather than shooting specialists who could open up space on the floor, would ease LeBron’s burden and potentially even match up well with the mighty Warriors — only to see their signees do little to hush the told-you-so crowd. JaVale McGee, the veteran center, initially exceeded expectations, but the quartet of Rajon Rondo, Lance Stephenson, Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Michael Beasley proved as collectively ineffective as feared.Perhaps we should have known that this was not going to be the usual LeBron season when a fight broke out between a number of Lakers and Houston Rockets in James’s first home game at Staples Center.And the tension never really let up.After just eight games — five of them losses — Johnson summoned Coach Luke Walton for a pointed lecture about the Lakers’ sluggish start. The team’s legendary point-guard-turned-team president never intended for the meeting or any details to leak to the news media, but they promptly did in the no-secrets world of the N.B.A.Johnson immediately tried to play down suggestions that Walton’s job was already in jeopardy, in an interview with The Los Angeles Times, but he would not go further than proclaiming that Walton was “going to finish the season, unless something drastic happens, which it won’t.”Walton is certainly not blameless in the Lakers’ struggles. His lineups, rotations and responsibility for L.A.’s worrisome drop to No. 22 leaguewide in offensive efficiency have routinely been questioned. Management, furthermore, is said to be dismayed by Walton’s refusal to hire a seasoned former head coach as his top assistant — something young coaches (Walton is 38) frequently do.Yet the public nature of the heat Walton took from his own front office made Johnson look impatient and, worse, ramped up the pressure on everyone in the Lakers’ locker room — especially the coach — before they even made it to Thanksgiving. With two years left on a five-year deal, Walton is widely expected to be shoved out of his toasty seat for good at season’s end.What can be classified as the best day of the Lakers’ season, if you only considered the box score, is also bound to be remembered as this season’s low point.The Lakers went to Oakland on Christmas Day for a game in the most anticipated television time slot on the regular-season calendar and throttled the two-time defending champion Warriors. The 127-101 rout capped an 18-9 surge that nudged L.A.’s record to 20-14, good for a promising fourth in the dauntingly deep Western Conference.But James strained his left groin as he stretched to retrieve a loose ball in the third quarter. The Lakers gradually pulled away without him — and James optimistically posted to Twitter the next day about how he “dodged a bullet,” with a #BackInNoTime hashtag — but the injury turned out to be the most serious he had ever sustained.James eventually missed 17 games. No previous injury had ever sidelined him longer than the eight games he lost to a back injury in 2014-15. The Lakers went 6-11 without James and, even accounting for all of their missteps before and after LeBron went down, can rightly point to suddenly losing their star as the biggest blow to the team’s playoff hopes.It remains unclear how #BackInNoTime turned into six weeks on the sideline for James. An inevitability given his age (34)? The byproduct of the Lakers playing at a much faster pace than LeBron’s Cleveland teams? A freak occurrence?Maybe it was a combination of all those factors.What’s clear, though, is that the Lakers’ overall poor health has consistently hurt them.The Lakers, for starters, are 6-15 since Jan. 19, when Lonzo Ball, who had begun to impress James as their starting point guard, sustained a serious ankle injury. And there’s more.Tyson Chandler, the veteran center who made such an impact defensively after joining the team Nov. 6, is dealing with a neck ailment. Josh Hart, the promising second-year guard, has been plagued by tendinitis in his left knee for months. And Brandon Ingram, the swingman with tantalizing potential as a scorer, missed several games with ankle and shoulder problems before he was ruled out for the rest of the season recently with deep venous thrombosis.In real time, only 11 days elapsed between New Orleans forward Anthony Davis’s trade request going public on Jan. 28 and the league’s Feb. 7 trade deadline. But that surely felt like an eternity for the Lakers’ quartet of starlets: Ingram, Ball, Hart and Kyle Kuzma.Especially since the fallout is continuing.From the minute James arrived in Hollywood, after the Lakers made unsuccessful trade runs at Paul George and Kawhi Leonard, it was known that the team would try to trade for Davis — which meant all four of L.A.’s top young players were destined to hear their names in trade speculation. Yet the leaguewide consensus was that Davis would not be made available until at least the 2019 off-season, theoretically giving the starlets an opportunity to build something with James — and maybe even change management’s mind about looking externally for LeBron’s superstar sidekick.But Davis’s trade request changed everything. Rich Paul, LeBron’s agent and longtime friend, became Davis’s agent in September and was widely perceived to have made the trade request on Davis’s behalf to get him to Los Angeles. A seemingly ceaseless stream of leaked Lakers offers thereafter irreparably fractured the locker room, no matter how hard Paul pushed back against that narrative.Nor can the team fully move on from the trade drama, because everyone knows the front office will be back on the phones with New Orleans soon, trying to beat out the Boston Celtics’ package for Davis once the Pelicans start fielding offers for him anew.A Feb. 12 road loss to the Atlanta Hawks was the Lakers’ fourth in five games entering the All-Star break and lowered their record to 28-29. James emerged from the break insisting that he would shift into playoff mode far earlier than normal — “It’s been activated,” LeBron promised — but the Lakers promptly lost road games to the Davis-less Pelicans and the draft-minded Memphis Grizzlies after a hope-building home win against the Houston Rockets.The season effectively ended March 2 in Phoenix, when the Lakers lost to a Suns team in the midst of a 1-18 funk. The defeat meant L.A. had fallen to five of the league’s six teams which currently have sub-.400 winning percentages (Chicago is the only exception). The loss was soon followed by announcements that Ball and Ingram would be held out of the Lakers’ remaining games — and that James’s minutes would be reduced.James was held out of Friday’s game against the Detroit Pistons via the increasingly popular leaguewide synonym for rest — “load management.” LeBron’s load, of course, is about to become lighter in April, May and June than anyone expected.These Lakers were never a lock to reach the playoffs in the loaded West, but the overwhelming majority of league observers and Las Vegas oddsmakers — who largely pegged them as a 48-win team — figured LeBron would find a way. He has instead absorbed criticism for spotty leadership and intermittent engagement with his new team as he prepares for life as a playoff spectator for the first time since his second N.B.A. season (2004-5).Last summer, when he was still preaching patience, Johnson did say that he would need two off-seasons to assemble a true contender even if the Lakers were fortunate enough to land LeBron. “Next summer, if nobody comes and I’m sitting here like this, then it’s a failure,” Magic said at the time.But spring has barely sprung — and next summer is already here for the Lakers and James. Sooner than they ever envisioned, Magic, Pelinka and Jeanie Buss, the Lakers’ owner, are on the clock to make moves that lead to a honeymoon that lasts.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy Marc SteinKristaps Porzingis of the Dallas Mavericks is under investigation by the New York Police Department after a recent accusation that he sexually assaulted a woman last season while he was playing for the Knicks, according to two people familiar with the case who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.Porzingis, who had not been charged as of Saturday night, denied the allegation through a statement from his lawyer Roland G. Riopelle.“We are aware of the complaint that was made against Mr. Porzingis on Friday and unequivocally deny the allegation,” Riopelle said. “We made a formal referral to federal law enforcement on December 20, 2018, based on the accuser’s extortionate demands.“We also alerted the National Basketball Association months ago, and they are aware of the ongoing investigation of the accuser by federal law enforcement. We cannot comment further on an ongoing federal investigation.”The N.B.A. spokesman Mike Bass said in a statement that the league was “aware of the situation,” but he did not elaborate.An N.Y.P.D. spokesman would not confirm or address any complaints against a specific individual, saying, “The N.Y.P.D. takes sexual assault and all rape cases extremely seriously, and urges anyone who has been a victim to file a report so we can perform a comprehensive investigation, and offer support and services to survivors.”Mavericks officials declined to comment, and a spokesman for the Knicks said, “This is Kristaps’s personal matter and not related to the Knicks.”The New York Post first reported Saturday that the woman told the police of the suspected attack from Feb. 7, 2018, on Thursday. Porzingis sustained a torn anterior crucial ligament in his left knee while playing for the Knicks on Feb. 6, 2018. The woman, according to the report, said Porzingis assaulted her hours later at the Sky building in Midtown Manhattan where each had a residence.The woman waited more than a year to come forward, according to The Post, because she had discussed receiving a payment of $68,000 from Porzingis. The Post also reported that the woman is in her 20s and that the N.Y.P.D.’s Special Victims Division has taken over the case.The Mavericks acquired the 7-foot-3 Porzingis from the Knicks in a seven-player trade on Jan. 31, but Porzingis has not played this season for either team while recovering from the knee injury. On the call with the league office to complete the blockbuster deal, Dallas was apprised by the Knicks of a potential “extortion issue” with Porzingis, according to one person familiar with the details of the call who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Porzingis will become a restricted free agent in July and is eligible for a five-year maximum contract worth an estimated $160 million from the Mavericks. Team officials have said repeatedly since acquiring Porzingis that they hope to sign him as quickly as possible.LAKERS SHUT DOWN JAMES LeBron James’s disappointing first season as a Los Angeles Laker ended abruptly when the team announced that it would hold him out of its final six games as a health precaution.“After consulting with our team doctors and medical staff, we have decided to hold LeBron out of games for the remainder of the season,” the Lakers said in a statement distributed on Saturday afternoon.“This decision will allow his groin to fully heal, and is best for the future success of both LeBron and the Lakers.”James thus ends his debut season as a Laker with just 55 of a possible 82 games played. He averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists and moved into fourth in career scoring — ahead of Michael Jordan — with 32,543 points.NETS 110, CELTICS 96 D’Angelo Russell scored 20 of his 29 points in another blistering third quarter against Boston, leading the Nets to a victory over short-handed Boston at Barclays Center.Back from a seven-game trip that lasted more than two weeks, the Nets had a happy homecoming largely because of Russell, who added 10 assists and finished with 25 points after halftime.It was the third straight time he hurt the Celtics in the third quarter, and the Nets really needed this one after going 2-5 on the road and dropping into seventh place in the Eastern Conference. They are a half-game behind Detroit and lead eighth-place Miami by a half-game and Orlando by one.“I told you, man, every one is going to be worth it,” Russell said. “We need it, scratching and clawing for every one of them.”Caris LeVert added 15 points for the Nets, who had dropped the final two games of the trip and still face a tough stretch now that they are back home.“We know that all these games coming up are playoff games,” Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “It’s just how we have to look at it. We’re in it. We can’t shy away from it.” (AP)HEAT 100, KNICKS 92 Dion Waiters scored 28 points and Dwyane Wade added 16 in his last game at Madison Square Garden as Miami beat the Knicks.Wade had back-to-back baskets in Miami’s 8-0 run to start the fourth quarter after the game was tied through three. He shot 6 for 16 and added seven rebounds in 27 minutes off the bench.Wade received a nice hand from the crowd when he walked to the scorer’s table for the first time midway through the first quarter. He then received an ovation when he checked into the game with 4 minutes 37 seconds left in the period.The Knicks honored Wade’s 15-year career with a video tribute with 2:47 remaining in the opening period after a Miami timeout. Wade then drove to the basket for his first points of the night.Wade, a 13-time All-Star, bid farewell to the Garden by planting a kiss on the Knicks logo at center court.“You love playing here,” Wade said, adding: “When I played in college, I got the opportunity to play here, the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic. It was just immediately, that feel, and the feel was there.”Emmanuel Mudiay scored 24 points for the Knicks, who have lost six straight and 14 of 15 over all, and eight in a row at home. (AP)HARDEN SCORES 50 James Harden had 50 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists, scoring 10 straight Houston points down the stretch to help the host Rockets beat Sacramento, 119-108.Harden had his 42nd career triple-double and his third 50-point game in the last six. He made seven 3-pointers to become the ninth player in N.B.A. history to reach 2,000 career baskets from beyond the arc.(AP)A 3-POINTER RECORD, AGAIN The N.B.A. set a record for 3-pointers made for the seventh straight year, after the 25,808th of the season was made Saturday night. The league is on pace for about an 8 percent rise in 3-pointers over last season — and 3s are being made 57 percent more often than they were five years ago. (AP)Ali Watkins, Kelly Whiteside and Zolan Kanno-Youngs contributed reporting.Advertisement
