AdvertisementSupported byNets 133, Bucks 128By The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — Jared Dudley brought a veteran’s presence and poise to a tense situation, helping the Nets to a crucial victory in their bid for the playoffs.Dudley’s offensive rebound set up Joe Harris’s go-ahead 3-pointer with 1 minute 24 seconds left in a 133-128 victory against the short-handed Milwaukee Bucks on Saturday.The Nets, who had dropped four of five, moved into a sixth-place tie in the Eastern Conference with Orlando; each team is 40-40. Detroit is a half-game back with a 39-40 record. The Nets have tiebreakers over the Magic and the Pistons. The Nets are ahead of ninth-place Miami by one and a half games.The Nets made 19 3-pointers and placed eight players in double figures. D’Angelo Russell had 25 points and 10 assists, the reserve Caris LeVert scored 24 points, and Dudley had 14 of his 16 points in the second half.Milwaukee was playing without the superstar Giannis Antetokounmpo, who was sidelined by a left calf injury.“It was tough, even without Giannis,” Dudley said, adding, “We just got key stops at the very end.”Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson called Dudley “the X factor” and said that his instincts had contributed to the Nets’ first win in four meetings with Milwaukee this season.Eric Bledsoe had 33 points and 11 assists for the Bucks, and Khris Middleton finished with 24 points.Bledsoe’s two foul shots gave Milwaukee a 128-126 lead with 2:30 left, but the Nets closed the game with a 7-0 run. Russell made two free throws, Harris drilled his tiebreaking 3-pointer, and Russell drove for a basket with 59.1 seconds left.“It was a room-and-rhythm look,” Harris said of his go-ahead shot.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe rapper was not pleased that the Minnesota Timberwolves mocked his performance in Milwaukee. He put a curse on the team.By Benjamin HoffmanSports curses come in all shapes and sizes. They can involve livestock, soup commercials, magazine covers and, frequently, the selling of star players.In recent years, the rapper Lil B has made a name for himself in the sports realm with his curses — most notably on James Harden of the Houston Rockets — but it appears he has some new competition: the rapper Ja Rule.It all started on Saturday, when Ja Rule was performing at halftime of a game between the Minnesota Timberwolves and the host Milwaukee Bucks.The performance came on the 17th anniversary of Ja Rule’s collaboration with Ashanti, “Always Be On Time,” hitting No. 1 on Billboard’s Hot 100. But the show came under criticism immediately because of a somewhat misleading video of the crowd reaction and another one showing an unexpected guest: Giannis Antetokounmpo, the Bucks’ star forward, who came out to begin warming up for the second half while Ja Rule was still performing on the court along with a group of dancers.The rapper initially shrugged off the criticism, but his tone changed when the Timberwolves decided to mock the performance on social media. In a post to Twitter, the team said “We too were hustled, scammed, bamboozled, hood winked, lead astray!!!” The post was a reference to an earlier post by Ja Rule about his role in the ill-fated Fyre Festival, a luxury music event in the Bahamas that failed spectacularly in 2017. The rapper was not amused.The potential effects of this particular curse are unclear, though. The Timberwolves have existed as a franchise for 30 seasons and not only have not won a championship, but they have only made it out of the first round of the playoffs once — in 2004. They are 28-31, putting them just outside legitimate playoff contention, and the notion that Karl-Anthony Towns is departing anytime soon — as Ja Rule suggested with “AND KAT IS LEAVING!!!” — seems unlikely, as he has signed a five-year contract extension that kicks in next year and guarantees him nearly $160 million.Of course, logic does not have to play a role in sports curses. The Chicago Cubs endured the so-called Curse of the Billy Goat for more than 70 years after the team asked the owner of the Billy Goat Tavern, William Sianis, to leave a game because his goat was bothering fans. That the team had not won a World Series in more than 30 years before the episode was treated as mostly irrelevant. Other popular curses have included one in which the athletes endorsing Campbell’s Chunky Soup seemed to become injured at an extraordinary rate. Another claimed that athletes had their performance fall off after appearing on the cover of Sports Illustrated.The most famous, of course, is the Curse of the Bambino, which doomed the Boston Red Sox to lose after selling Babe Ruth to the Yankees in December 1919. The jinx is credited by some with keeping the Red Sox from winning a World Series for 86 years, despite the first year of that stretch coming before the team sold Ruth, and the fact that the curse was barely mentioned in popular culture before George Vecsey wrote a column about it for The New York Times in 1986. Dan Shaughnessy of the Boston Globe also wrote a book in 1990 that popularized the phrase.At the very least, the talk of Ja Rule’s curse was good news for Lil B, who spent part of the weekend trending on Twitter. He celebrated by retweeting various people saying Ja Rule was simply stealing a tactic that Lil B had already perfected.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellHOLBROOK, Ariz. — A wind that would not stop tugged at flags and sent sand devils spinning into this desert town as I walked past Mr. Maestas Restaurant and the Arizona Pawnman and the Empty Pockets Saloon and came to a rise and looked across an emptiness of plain that stretched the limits of vision.I recalled my talk a few days ago with Mike Budenholzer at the Ritz-Carlton in New York City. He coaches the Milwaukee Bucks, who finished the regular season with 60 wins and the best record in the N.B.A. His team features a brilliant Greek forward-guard-center named Giannis Antetokounmpo, Montenegrin and Turkish forwards, a Spanish center, and black and white players from corners rural and urban.He is known for his deft handling of diverse pro players. Where, I asked, did you pick up that skill?Let me tell you about my hometown, Holbrook, he said.Budenholzer, blue-eyed and middle-age, was once was a skinny, blond, teenage shooting guard in this old cattle and railway town. He starred on the Roadrunners basketball team at Holbrook High School alongside his boyhood friend B. J. Little, an African-American; a few Anglos; and a half-dozen Navajo boys who could run and pass all day and all night.“There’s no doubt in mind that my background there has helped me navigate life in the N.B.A.” Budenholzer said. “Growing up, you knew Navajo culture and black culture from Louisiana and Mexicans. I learned to foster the same sort of culture.”Holbrook comprises its own world, an isolated high desert city of 5,053 that sits on the southern lip of the Navajo Nation, which is the size of the Republic of Ireland. To the south lies the small Mormon town of Snowflake, and beyond that the forests and canyons of the White Mountain Apache Reservation, which is bigger than Delaware.Holbrook’s population is roughly 50 percent white and 50 percent Navajo, Hopi, Mexican and black. The city has long kept a dormitory for Navajo children whose parents want them to attend the well-regarded Holbrook High School. Founded in the 1880s, Holbrook was an outlaw-friendly habitat, and a sign on the South Side tends to underline this point: Bucket of Blood Street. Terrill’s Cottage Saloon once stood on this street, and more than a few cowpokes breathed their last there.Quite a few youngsters leave in search of better prospects. The city is tattered at the edges, a few buildings lie gape-toothed and abandoned, a motel stands vacant, and a single movie theater shows a single movie. But it’s a hospitable place, and the main drag, Navajo Boulevard, has Mexican restaurants and motels and Native American jewelry stores and a herd of giant plastic dinosaurs that signal proximity to Petrified Forest National Park.Budenholzer’s father, Vince, coached the basketball team and won a state championship in 1971 and was inducted into the state coaching hall of fame. At the time, Mike was an assistant to Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs. During a team visit to Phoenix, he told Popovich of his father’s ascent. When Vince showed up later that day, Popovich got down on a knee in the hotel and said, “Here is a real coach.”Father and son were two hoops tramps who traveled in school buses hundreds of miles across the empty quarter of Northern Arizona in search of games and wins.Vince’s Holbrook teams played a variation on the Native American hoops style known as Rez Ball: A quicksilver, sneaker-squeaking, run-pass-pass-shoot style, perfect for the Navajo and the Apache, for whom distance running is a millenniums-old tradition.“We pressed from the minute we stepped off the bus,” Vince said. ”I had one Navajo who was taller than 6 foot, and so what?”Vince is 89 and still lean in that way of an old athlete, and he and his wife, Libby, moved nine years ago to Queen Valley, in the cactus foothills of the Superstition Mountains, east of Phoenix. They miss Holbrook; it remains the home of their hearts, but the winters on that mile-high plateau ran them off. “The winds never stop blowing,” Libby said.The couple raised seven children, five boys and two girls, in a small house across Florida Street from Hunt Park. Libby became a councilwoman and served a term as mayor, and Vince moonlighted as Holbrook’s parks and recreation director during the summer. He built a hoop in his backyard and put up a floodlight so the teenagers could play into the evening.Little, Mike’s old teammate who is now a judge in nearby Winslow, drove me by that house, which was sold years back. The hoop still stood.“Oh man, we’d play there the whole night, and Vince would never stop coaching,” Little said. “My grandparents said I had to get home before the streetlights came on. But if I was playing ball with Mikey at the Budenholzers, that was my pass.”Father and son Budenholzer flashed hauntingly similar smiles when they recalled those days. Mike was the leading scorer on the Roadrunners, a kid who could shoot from near and far and almost as well with his left hand as his right. Little, whose grandparents came from Louisiana to work in the McNary Saw Mill, ripped rebounds, and the Navajo kids dribbled and ran and pressed.The day before the tournament, two of the best players got drunk. They were suspended, and that left the Roadrunners with one star: Mike Budenholzer. That was not enough horsepower, and the team lost. “It boggled my mind that they would get caught,” Mike said.“I think I would give up an N.B.A. championship to get that one back,” he said.I looked at him: You’re kidding, right? He shrugged. “I mean, winning a state championship in Arizona, that’s a big deal.”Navajo and Mexican and Anglo kids still play baseball, basketball and football and live more or less shoulder to shoulder. “It was a town where you played everything and with everyone else,” Mike said. “The only social rule you recognized in high school was that Mormon girls don’t date non-Mormons.”He shrugged. “So you adjust.”Budenholzer was a good student and got into Pomona College, a fine liberal arts institution in California. He was not yet sold. He was a jock and he wanted to play basketball and he already had a scholarship offer in hand.He visited Pomona and sat around with other students and listened as they talked of their choices. There was the kid who was weighing Williams College or Pomona, and another who was wait-listed at Stanford University. They looked at Budenholzer and asked, What about you?“I tell them I’m trying to choose between Pomona and Yavapai Community College, where I could get a free ride,” Budenholzer said. “And they were, like, ‘whaaaat?’ And I’m thinking, ‘What am I doing here, I’m in the wrong place.’ ”His brothers and sisters decided Mikey, the youngest, was going to Pomona. They pooled money as best they could so he could afford it. He graduated with a degree in philosophy and economics.Before he left Holbrook and set out on his life journey, Budenholzer did what he did every summer, which is to say he rounded up B. J. Little and other buddies and piled into a car and headed north to play in the informal spring tournaments that are a staple of life on the Navajo reservation. They drove across washes and around canyons and past red-ribbed buttes that reared like primeval monsters. They pulled into Navajo towns: Dilkon and Window Rock, Tuba City and Ganado, anywhere there was a tournament.They got caught up in endless Rez Ball games, running and shooting and banging one another from morning till late at night. As hoops is civic religion on the rez, crowds of hundreds watched and cheered, not least for the bilagaanas (Navajo for whites).“Those spring tournaments got rough, the referees were terrible and man, it was just the best,” Budenholzer said.During the season when reservation teams arrived to play Holbrook, a long line of cars would follow. The rule was straightforward for Holbrook’s fans, Vince said. Make it to the gym by 4 p.m. for a 7 p.m. game, or you could forget about finding a seat.It is not so different when Mike’s teams pull into Phoenix. After working as an assistant with the Spurs, he coached the Atlanta Hawks before coming to Milwaukee. Whenever his team plays the Phoenix Suns, Little’s sister sets to work organizing a Holbrook caravan. Dozens of cars wend their way down through ponderosa forests and jagged mountains to the game — whites, Mexicans, blacks and Navajos, sometimes 100 strong. After the game, Budenholzer talks with them.“It always moves me,” Mike says.It’s been a long time since he left home. This summer, after the N.B.A. playoffs and before the pro summer leagues begin, he and Vince and Libby plan to drive up through the Tonto National Forest and across the Salt River Canyon to Holbrook. And when they reach their old high school gym, they will find teammates and students and teachers and townspeople gathered to listen as Superintendent Robert Koerperich dedicates the Vince Budenholzer gym floor.“To let our kids know that you can come out of Holbrook and coach a pro team, how amazing is that?” Koeperich says.Mike Budenholzer looks forward to walking Navajo Boulevard and maybe seeing the family house again. Then he wants to stand behind Vince and Libby and clap so hard.“To have raised seven kids on a teacher’s salary in a great small town and let us interact and form great friendships with Navajos and Mexicans and blacks and Mormons. They were really ahead of their time,” Budenholzer said. “This is America.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The evolution of Giannis Antetokounmpo into a global star has been playing out for six seasons. It manifests in soaring dunks, or blocked shots from the weak side that defy logic, or wraparound passes to an open shooter, or crossover dribbles that leave defenders reeling in his impossibly long-limbed wake.But Pat Connaughton, a reserve guard, did not have the opportunity to witness Antetokounmpo’s feats on a daily basis until last summer, when he signed with the Milwaukee Bucks and joined his new teammates for scrimmages ahead of training camp.“You’d see him do something ridiculous, and I’d be looking around and nobody would be reacting,” Connaughton recalled. “Like, ‘Did you guys not just see that?’”For the players who have been around Antetokounmpo the longest, there may be an element of genius fatigue at work — not that they take him for granted. Malcolm Brogdon, a third-year guard, tried to provide some context for Connaughton at one of those early scrimmages.“You’ll get used to it after a while,” Brogdon told him. “It happens all the time.”Antetokounmpo, 24, has turned the sublime into the routine. But the novelty has not worn off for N.B.A. fans, who have made him appointment viewing this season, and the Bucks have shaped themselves into contenders by following his lead. On top of that, nearly two years after Kobe Bryant, the retired Los Angeles Lakers guard, challenged Antetokounmpo to win the league’s Most Valuable Player Award, he may be on the verge of upending the Eastern Conference to do so.“Everything you see about him or hear about him is how hard he works,” Lakers Coach Luke Walton said, “and how great he wants to be.”The Bucks improved their league-best record to 48-14 after coming from behind to defeat the Lakers on Friday night at Staples Center. Antetokounmpo, who has been dealing with right knee soreness, finished with 16 points and 15 rebounds in the Bucks’ 131-120 win, which qualified as a quiet effort for him. But he had his moments.Early in the fourth quarter, he sized up Mike Muscala, his 6-foot-11 defender, at the top of the perimeter. He took a couple of hard dribbles into the paint, threw his right shoulder into Muscala to knock him off balance, then dunked over him with his left hand.“He draws so much attention,” Bucks Coach Mike Budenholzer said.It was a play that helped ignite the Bucks, who enjoyed an eventful day. After point guard Eric Bledsoe agreed to a four-year, $70 million contract extension in the afternoon, he roasted the Lakers for a season-high 31 points. In addition, Pau Gasol was expected to join the team after securing a buyout from the San Antonio Spurs.“Unbelievable guy,” Antetokounmpo said of Gasol. “He’s been to the finals. He has so much experience. I think he’s definitely going to help us.”The Bucks are readying for a playoff run with Antetokounmpo as their focal point. Entering their game against the Utah Jazz on Saturday night, Antetokounmpo was averaging 26.8 points, 12.6 rebounds and 5.9 assists while shooting 57.9 percent from the field.“When the season started, we knew we had something special — we had a great team,” he said. “But to be honest with you, no, I never thought we were going to have the best record in the N.B.A.“But I think we’ve worked hard for it, we go out there and show up for every game, and we try to win every game.”There is no apt historical comparison for Antetokounmpo because the league has never seen anyone quite like him. He is too long and too strong, too quick and too skilled, a 6-foot-11 power forward who can defend point guards at one end and post up the league’s stoutest centers at the other. As for Antetokounmpo’s unique athleticism, Connaughton considers him to be something of a hybrid of Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors and LeBron James of the Lakers.“He’s got the length of K.D.,” Connaughton said, “but now he’s at the point where he’s got the strength of LeBron — or at least he’s on that trajectory. And that speaks volumes about his work ethic and his desire to be the best that he can be. Because not a lot of guys with that talent work that hard.”Connaughton, whose playing time has fluctuated this season, often goes to the team’s practice facility on off days for extra shooting and conditioning work. Antetokounmpo, Connaughton said, is always there, too. He is a gym rat in the second year of a four-year, $100 million contract. Connaughton joined the Bucks after three seasons with the Portland Trail Blazers, and he said Antetokounmpo plays with the same motor — the same mind-set — as Damian Lillard, the Blazers’ All-Star point guard.“Obviously Dame is a different player, but I think they share an inner desire,” Connaughton said. “It has nothing to do with the outside. It has nothing to do with the media, the attention or the press. Like, they’re in it for their own reasons — the right reasons, in my opinion.”Whenever Budenholzer is asked about it, which is often these days, he makes a compelling case for Antetokounmpo as the N.B.A.’s most valuable player — and he cites his defense as Exhibit A. Antetokounmpo is so dynamic on offense, Budenholzer said, that it tends to overshadow everything else is does. Sure enough, he had three blocked shots against the Lakers.Antetokounmpo is not going to create headlines with bold predictions — after Friday’s win, he repeated familiar mantras about taking it “day by day” and continuing to “work hard” — but the Bucks must be thinking big. All around them, powerhouse teams are struggling. Even the Warriors, the two-time defending champions, have had issues.Few thought the Bucks would be this good this quickly, but everyone was saying the same thing about Antetokounmpo when he entered the league at age 19. Suddenly, the future is now.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — D'Angelo Russell had 25 points and 10 assists, and the Brooklyn Nets beat the short-handed Milwaukee Bucks 133-128 on Saturday to improve their positioning in the Eastern Conference playoff race.Brooklyn (40-40) made 19 3-pointers and placed eight players in double figures. Caris LeVert had 24 points, and Jared Dudley finished with 16.The Nets, who had dropped four of five, moved into sixth place in the East. Orlando also is 40-40, and Detroit is a half-game back with a 39-40 record.Milwaukee played without MVP candidate Giannis Antetokounmpo, who was sidelined by a left calf injury. The Bucks (59-21) clinched the NBA's best record with a road victory against Philadelphia on Thursday night.Eric Bledsoe had 33 points and 11 assists for Milwaukee, and Khris Middleton finished with 24 points.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Field Level MediaKareem Abdul-Jabbar, the Hall of Fame center, has put four N.B.A. championship rings and other memorabilia up for auction.Abdul-Jabbar, 71, wrote on his website this month that “much of the proceeds” would benefit his Skyhook Foundation, a charity that helps children learn about science, technology, engineering and math.The rings up for bid are the ones he won with the Los Angeles Lakers in 1980, ’85, ’87 and ’88. Abdul-Jabbar also won league championships in 1971 with the Milwaukee Bucks and in 1982 with the Lakers. Game-used and autographed items — including All-Star rings and uniforms — from his career are also available at the auction, which runs through Saturday.“When it comes to choosing between storing a championship ring or trophy in a room, or providing kids with an opportunity to change their lives, the choice is pretty simple. Sell it all,” wrote Abdul-Jabbar, who is the N.B.A.’s career scoring leader.“Looking back on what I have done with my life, instead of gazing at the sparkle of jewels or gold plating celebrating something I did a long time ago, I’d rather look into the delighted face of a child holding their first caterpillar and think about what I might be doing for their future.”The auction is being conducted by Goldin Auctions. As of Tuesday afternoon, the bidding on his ring from the 1985 N.B.A. championship was up to $85,000, and the bidding on a signed basketball from his final N.B.A. game in 1989 was up to $75,000.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLarry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed Thursday to part ways."We have great respect and appreciation for Larry and the job that he did as the head coach of the Cavaliers for nearly the entire 2018-19 campaign," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "He brought professionalism, class and steady leadership both this past season and prior four years."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role. Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers. All of us in Cleveland wish Larry nothing but the best going forward."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first, before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.Drew, 61, previously was head coach of the Atlanta Hawks (2010-13) and Milwaukee Bucks (2013-14), and joined the Cavaliers initially as an assistant coach in 2014, then as the associate head coach. While there, the Cavaliers won their first NBA title during the 2015-16 season. He has been an assistant coach in the NBA for 23 seasons.Drew went 8-1 as fill-in coach in the 2017-18 season while Lue was on a medical leave to deal with anxiety issues."I want to thank Dan Gilbert, Koby Altman, the entire organization, and especially our fans, for what has been a very special and rewarding time here in Cleveland. Koby and I had a good discussion following the season and have both decided that the best decision for each of us was that I would not return to coach the team," said Drew, who was an NBA point guard from 1980-91, playing for the Detroit Pistons, Kansas City/Sacramento Kings, Los Angeles Clippers and Lakers."I am very proud of what we accomplished over the last several years together and will always cherish our Championship. I also want to commend our players this season for the bond that they established, the way they approached their jobs and the hard work and growth they had every day. I am very proud of them and wish them the best as they continue to develop for the future."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe NBA rescinded technical fouls assessed to Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant and Los Angeles Clippers forward JaMychal Green on Friday after reviewing a call made during Thursday night's game.Durant and Green were exchanging words during the third quarter when the double-technical was called, stunning both players.The decision to rescind was announced from the league's @NBAOfficial account on Twitter.The change was good for Durant, as he already received two technicals earlier in the series. An accumulation of seven technicals during the postseason carries an automatic one-game suspension. He had lobbied for the technicals to be rescinded after Thursday's 132-105 victory.--Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, who missed Game 3 of his team's first-round playoff series against the Brooklyn Nets on Thursday night because of left knee soreness, is listed as doubtful for Game 4 on Saturday. The NBA announced his status in its injury report.Embiid's status has digressed from the first three games when he was listed as questionable. He continues to deal with left knee tendinitis, a problem throughout the regular season, when he missed 14 of the Sixers' 24 games after the All-Star break.Despite Embiid's absence in Game 3, the visiting 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory over the host Nets to take a 2-1 lead. Greg Monroe started in Embiid's place and collected nine points on 4-for-13 shooting and grabbed 13 rebounds. Game 4 of the best-of-seven will also be played in Brooklyn before the series shifts to Philadelphia on Tuesday.--The status of Detroit Pistons forward Blake Griffin remains uncertain entering Saturday's Game 3 of the team's Eastern Conference first-round series against the Milwaukee Bucks.Griffin missed the first two games with a left knee injury, and coach Dwane Casey didn't shed any light on whether the six-time All-Star will return on Saturday for the eighth-seeded Pistons, who lost the first two games of the series in Milwaukee by an average of 28 points."Day-to-day. I'm not talking about Blake," Casey told reporters after Friday's practice. "Day-to-day. Same old words. Just like I am on coaching -- day-to-day."--Former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue was scheduled to interview with the Los Angeles Lakers for their head coaching vacancy, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.The Lakers fired coach Luke Walton last week after three seasons and a 98-148 record.Lue, who previously served as an assistant coach for the Boston Celtics, L.A. Clippers and Cavaliers, became head coach in Cleveland during the 2015-16 season after David Blatt was fired.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGiannis Antetokounmpo racked up 24 points, 17 rebounds and four assists in only 23 minutes as the top-seeded Milwaukee Bucks overwhelmed the visiting Detroit Pistons 121-86 in their Eastern Conference playoff opener on Sunday.George Hill had 16 points off the bench for the Bucks, who led by 27 at halftime. Eric Bledsoe scored 15 points, Brook Lopez and Khris Middleton had 14 apiece, and Sterling Brown added 11 along with a team-high seven assists.Pistons center Andre Drummond was ejected with 4:07 remaining in the third quarter for shoving Antetokounmpo to the floor. The two-handed push occurred after Antetokounmpo grabbed an offensive rebound. Drummond finished with 12 points and 12 rebounds.Luke Kennard's 21 points off the bench topped Detroit, which played without All-Star forward Blake Griffin. He was sidelined by a sore left knee, which also kept him out of four of the last seven regular-season games. The Bucks were without guards Malcolm Brogdon (foot) and Tony Snell (ankle).Trail Blazers 104, Thunder 99Damian Lillard scored 30 points as Portland held off visiting Oklahoma City to win the opener of their first-round playoff series.CJ McCollum added 24 points, and Enes Kanter contributed 20 points and 18 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who led by as many as 19 points in the first half. The lead shrunk to as few as three points in the fourth quarter, but Oklahoma City never had possession with a chance to tie.Paul George collected 26 points and 10 rebounds, and Russell Westbrook compiled 24 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists for the Thunder, who made only 5 of 33 3-point attempts in the game.Celtics 84, Pacers 74Boston held visiting Indiana without a field goal for the first 8 1/2 minutes of the second half, rallying from a halftime deficit for a victory in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.After failing to make even one-third of their shots in the first half while falling behind 45-38, the fourth-seeded Celtics became a defensive force in the third quarter. The Pacers, seeded fifth in the East, missed their first seven shots of the second half and mixed in three turnovers as their seven-point lead turned into a 47-45 deficit.Kyrie Irving and Marcus Morris scored 20 points apiece for Boston, which won handily despite shooting just 36.4 percent. Cory Joseph led Indiana with 14 points, and Bojan Bogdanovic had 12, as the Pacers shot 33.3 percent for the game overall.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — The longest active streak of missing the NBA playoffs belongs to Sacramento, where general manager Vlade Divac has been trying to return the Kings to the league's elite over the last four seasons.Back when the slick-passing Serbian big man was in the paint, the Kings had quite the run. For his impact on the NBA as one of the pioneering Eastern Europeans, Divac was announced Saturday as one of the 12 honorees in the 2019 class of the Basketball Hall of Fame."We created something special there, the first day of training camp that led us," said Divac, who played for Sacramento from 1998-2004, with a peak in 2002 when the Kings lost to the Los Angeles Lakers in overtime of Game 7 of the Western Conference finals. "For six years, we were the most exciting team in the league and really played basketball the right way."The class will be enshrined at the Hall of Fame in Springfield, Massachusetts, on Sept. 6. Selected this year with Divac were NBA players Carl Braun, Chuck Cooper, Bobby Jones, Sidney Moncrief, Jack Sikma and Paul Westphal, NBA coach Bill Fitch, NBA contributor Al Attles, WNBA player Teresa Weatherspoon, the 1957-59 teams from Tennessee A&I and the Wayland Baptist University program.Divac, who was elected directly by the international committee, played 16 years in the NBA, including eight with the Lakers. The 7-foot-1 Divac had his jersey retired by the Kings after helping them start a streak of eight straight postseason appearances upon his arrival. They never advanced past the conference finals, a surge that coincided with the Lakers dynasty of Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal.One of Divac's fellow starters on those Kings teams was Chris Webber, who wasn't included in the class. Now an analyst for CBS Sports, Webber quickly sent Divac a congratulatory message after the announcement in Minneapolis at the Final Four."For the last five or six days when I found out I was going to be there, I was only hoping that he was going to be next me," Divac said. "I'm sure it's going to happen down the road, but it would be awesome if he was right next to me."Moncrief and Sikma, who were elected by the North American committee, were teammates with the Milwaukee Bucks from 1986-89. The seven-time All-Star Sikma, who won an NBA title in his second season with the Seattle SuperSonics, set a record with the Bucks in 1988 as the only center in history to lead the league in free-throw percentage at 92.2. Sikma is now a consultant with the Toronto Raptors, who are in second place in the Eastern Conference behind the resurgent Bucks."My hope is we get in the conference finals and we're facing the Bucks, and then I'll kind of keep my thoughts to myself a little bit," Sikma said, smiling.Moncrief was a five-time All-Star and two-time NBA Defensive Player of the Year in the mid-1980s for the Bucks, who lost in the Eastern Conference finals three times during his career. Moncrief also reached the Final Four in his final season at Arkansas, 1978-79, under coach Eddie Sutton, for whom he gave credit for instilling in him the fundamentals that carried him to professional success."You'd take a four-hour practice: three hours on defense. Seriously," Moncrief said. "And they wonder why I couldn't shoot when I got to the NBA! I didn't shoot. I just played defense."Weatherspoon, who was elected by the women's committee, was a five-time WNBA All-Star for the New York Liberty who was the first in the league to reach 1,000 points and 1,000 assists. She led Louisiana Tech to an NCAA championship in 1988.Jones and Westphal were the other players elected by the North American committee. Jones was an eight-time NBA All-Defensive first team pick and four-time All-Star with the Philadelphia 76ers, winning a title with them in 1983. Westphal was a five-time All-Star who won a championship with the Boston Celtics in 1974.Fitch coached in the NBA for 255 seasons, leading the Celtics to a title in 1981 and still holding the franchise's best winning percentage at .738. The other election by the North American committee was the Tennessee A&I teams that won NAIA championships in 1957, 1958 and 1959. The program now known as Tennessee State was the first to win three straight titles in any college division.Attles was a direct election by the contributor committee. He played for the Philadelphia Warriors from 1960-71 and later was a coach, executive and ambassador for the organization. Cooper, who died in 1984, was directly elected by the early African American pioneers committee. He was an All-American at Duquesne in 1950 and the first African American player drafted by an NBA team. Braun, directly elected by the veterans committee, died in 2010. He was a five-time NBA All-Star who won a title with the Boston Celtics in 1962.Wayland Baptist, elected directly by the women's veterans committee, was among the first women's programs to award scholarships. Under the guidance of coach Harley Redin, the small school in West Texas won 131 straight games from 1953-58 and 10 national championships overall.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperCHARLOTTE, N.C. — After two weeks of Anthony Davis’s trade request dominating conversation around the N.B.A., Commissioner Adam Silver on Saturday sounded sanguine about any possible negative effects it was having on the league.“Some of the greatest players in the history of this league have demanded trades at various points of their contracts,” he said at his annual All-Star weekend address. He went on to say that there was “very little” he could do to completely stop players from trying to force trades.Davis was fined $50,000 for the public trade request made by his agent, Rich Paul. Silver said it was healthy for players and their agents to have ongoing conversations with their teams about future intentions, but that he preferred that such conversations happen behind closed doors. As for the frenzy of news media attention surrounding Davis and his possible destination this summer, Silver said the “public spectacle” wasn’t the type of media interest the league wanted.“We certainly are becoming a 52-week-a-year sport, and it’s largely the result of tremendous interest in these players,” he said. “I think we could do a better job as a league in avoiding those situations where they get to the point where players are maybe demanding they be traded or, worst-case scenario, saying, ‘I’m not going to honor my contract.’”[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]Silver has frequently stated a desire to improve the N.B.A.’s competitive balance. Asked whether small-market teams could compete with large-market franchises, Silver largely disputed the premise without even citing the fact that the Milwaukee Bucks, a small-market club, currently have the best winning percentage in the league.He took the opposite approach.“I’m not even sure where the line is anymore on big markets,” he said, pointing out that the Los Angeles Lakers, New York Knicks and Chicago Bulls — teams that play in major cities — have struggled on the court in recent years.Silver also said it was too early to judge whether reforms to the draft lottery, intended to reduce the incentive to tank in pursuit of a high draft pick, were having the intended effect. Four teams this year are on pace to win fewer than 20 games, but Silver said there is also an unusually large number still in contention for a playoff berth.“I personally don’t think it is a winning strategy over the long term, losing for multiple years,” said Silver. He also said that choosing to be uncompetitive for an extended period of time would most likely have a “corrosive’’ effect on any team that took that approach.Taken together, Silver’s responses to questions suggested that he was relatively happy with the state of the N.B.A. and believed that the league’s problems could be solved through tweaks to the system, not wholesale changes.Silver opened the news conference by addressing House Bill 2, the law passed in North Carolina in 2016 that invalidated local government ordinances establishing anti-discrimination protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people and required people in publicly owned buildings to use restrooms that corresponded with the genders listed on their birth certificates. In response to the law, the N.B.A. took the All-Star Game, originally scheduled to be played in Charlotte in 2017, away from the city.He said it was the view of the league office that the law discriminated against the LGBTQ community, and subsequently the N.B.A. made the decision that it was “inconsistent with the values of this league to play the All-Star Game here under those circumstances.” The N.B.A. decided to return after the law was partially repealed.Asked about efforts to improve the culture of the Dallas Mavericks, where a league investigation found numerous instances of sexual harassment and improper conduct among employees, Silver offered few specifics but said there was a “complete sea change in culture on the business side” of the organization.Earlier Saturday, the N.B.A., in partnership with the International Basketball Federation, announced the formation of the Basketball Africa League, a 12-team professional league made up of clubs from across Africa. The league will begin play in 2020, the first time that the N.B.A. will be involved in the operation of a league outside of North America.Many details, including which clubs from which countries will be part of the league, have yet to be finalized, but Silver did say that former President Barack Obama would be involved in the league in an unspecified capacity.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — Giannis Antetokounmpo ran and dunked all over the Pistons until they just shoved him to the ground.The team with the NBA's best record wanted to show it can make a long playoff run, and the Detroit Pistons were helpless to slow them down."I don't know if they were ready for us," Antetokounmpo said. "But we just try to focus on ourselves. We just try to play with pace, run to our spots and try to make plays."Antetokounmpo had 24 points and 17 rebounds in just 24 minutes, and the Milwaukee Bucks rolled to a 121-86 victory on Sunday night in the opener of their first-round playoff series.Seven players scored in double figures for the Bucks, who led by as many as 43 points. Their 35-point margin was the third-largest in the franchise's playoff history.The Pistons only really caught up to Antetokounmpo when center Andre Drummond shoved him to the ground with both hands late in the third quarter, after the MVP candidate grabbed an offensive rebound with Detroit trailing by 41 points.Drummond was given a flagrant 2 foul and ejected. He blew a kiss to the Fiserv Forum crowd as he was escorted off the court."As a team we talked about it, to try to keep our composure whenever the opposing team tries to foul us hard or tries to hit us or play dirty," Antetokounmpo said. "Obviously, I'm not going to look to the referees for protection. I've just got to play smart and try to avoid the situations."Antetokounmpo was only 5 of 12 on free throws and 1 of 5 from 3-point range, but was 9 for 17 from the field.Eric Bledsoe had 15 points, and Brook Lopez and Khris Middleton each added 14 for the Bucks. George Hill scored 16 points off the bench."We were all over the map defensively and didn't get anything done," coach Dwane Casey said of the Pistons, who allowed 70 first-half points and trailed by 27 at intermission. "We have another level we have to get to with our intensity and physicality, because they're coming through there with balance, Euro-stepping, throwing elbows and stuff like this."We have to get our level of competitiveness up to start the game, because you can't spot a great team like this that many points and expect to get back into it."Luke Kennard paced the Pistons with 21 points off the bench and Drummond had 12 points and 12 rebounds. Reggie Jackson also had 12 points. Detroit played without forward Blake Griffin, who sat out with a left knee injury.Detroit shot 38% from the field and went 8 of 27 from 3-point distance (29.6."I think it was top-notch today," Bledsoe said of the Bucks' defensive performance. "Brook was protecting the paint all night. We were getting steals, playing our game and getting out in transition. We started early so that helped us out."The Bucks sank 15 3-pointers, just one shy of tying a playoff high, and compiled 31 assists on 44 made field goals.Drummond got the defensive assignment on Antetokounmpo after Thon Maker got in early foul trouble trying to stop him."I have watched that kid since he got drafted so I know his game like the back of my hand," Drummond said. "He is just going to put his head down and keep driving in there. (The plan) is to make him take tough shots, take charges when he does try to bulldog his way in, force him to take 3-point shots, and if we do foul him, foul him as hard as possible."GRIFFIN GETS A TECHGriffin was issued a technical foul for protesting Drummond's ejection. Casey said he understood what the referees were doing to keep control of the game but thought a flagrant 1 foul would have been more appropriate."I think it was a flagrant but I don't think Andre deserved to be out the rest of the game," Griffin said. "At least that is my opinion in real time."Casey said he thought Griffin did not deserve a technical."What I didn't understand was an official coming over and having a conversation with a player that's not even playing and giving him a technical," Casey said. "It's a hot situation. Walk to the other side of the floor instead of having a conversation."Griffin said it was frustrating having to watch Game 1 from the sideline."I never like to feel like I'm leaving my guys out there," Griffin said. "But I have to do what our organization, our training staff, our doctors think is best, and that is the bottom line."TIP-INSDetroit: Maker faced his former team and started in Griffin's place. He avoided a flagrant foul when he brought Antetokounmpo to the floor in the second quarter. The referees reviewed the play but stayed with their original call of a common foul. Maker had four points and four rebounds in 22 minutes and was booed heavily by the home crowd. "Thon is my little brother," Antetokounmpo said. "I've known him since he came to the league. We've been friends. But I know he's a competitor. I know he's going to come out here and do whatever he can to help his team win. . Detroit entered with a 14-3 playoff record against Milwaukee, winning all four series.Milwaukee: F Nikola Mirotic played 15 minutes while scoring four points on 2-of-8 shooting. "He's just getting back in conditioning and health and everything like that," Bucks coach Mike Budenholzer said. Mirotic had missed the last 11 regular-season games after fracturing his left thumb on March 19 against the Los Angeles Lakers. ... The Bucks' 70 points were the second-most in a first half in franchise playoff history. They scored 77 against Philadelphia in the Eastern Division semifinals in March 1970.UP NEXTGame 2 is Wednesday night in Milwaukee.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAnthony Davis has the Knicks on equal footing with the Los Angeles Lakers as he considers what teams he would be willing to join on a long-term deal after securing a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans, according to two people with knowledge of Davis’s thinking.A trade to any team did not appear imminent Wednesday night, as Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline drew near. But Davis’s recent request to be traded did not include a demand that the move happen before the deadline, according to the people, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the situation publicly.The Knicks have won only one playoff series over the past 18 seasons and their public image has suffered under the ownership of James L. Dolan. But the lure of playing in one of the league’s most attractive markets along with the way the Knicks have positioned themselves to pursue marquee free agents after trading away their franchise player, Kristaps Porzingis, have resonated with Davis, according to the people.The Lakers had been aggressively trying to complete a trade for Davis with the Pelicans before the deadline, because the Boston Celtics — who have been planning a trade run at Davis for months — cannot trade for the All-Star forward while Kyrie Irving is on the Celtics’ roster. (Davis and Irving are both playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions; league rules preclude teams from fielding more than one such player.)The Lakers, however, backed out of trade talks for Davis on Tuesday, according to The Los Angeles Times. ESPN reported Wednesday night that there had been no communication Wednesday between New Orleans General Manager Dell Demps and Lakers President Magic Johnson.The Knicks, who unsuccessfully attempted to interest New Orleans in a Porzingis-headlined trade for Davis last month, could still make offers for Davis up to Thursday’s deadline. But they might fare better after the draft lottery in May, when the Knicks’ position in the June 20 draft is cemented.Thanks in part to the Porzingis trade, the Knicks have amassed seven first-round picks over the next five years to go with a core of promising young players headlined by Kevin Knox and the newly acquired Dennis Smith Jr. Skepticism permeates the Knicks’ fan base as the team appears headed toward its sixth successive non-playoff season, but their trade assets position the Knicks to make a legitimate run at Davis before a big free-agent summer. In the off-season, the Knicks plan to use the significant salary-cap space opened by the Porzingis deal to pursue marquee free agents such as Golden State’s Kevin Durant and Irving in Boston.The Knicks are aware of Davis’s strong interest in playing in New York, according to the people. Either way, though, Davis is leaning toward playing out his current contract and becoming a free agent in July 2020 no matter where he is traded.Since Davis lodged his trade request on Jan. 28, there have been numerous reports that he is not willing to sign a long-term contract with the Celtics, but Sports Illustrated and the Boston Herald were among the news media outlets to report this week that Celtics officials had urged the Pelicans to hold off on trading Davis until the off-season, insisting that Boston could produce an offer that would trump any competing proposals.The Los Angeles Clippers and the Milwaukee Bucks are the other two teams, along with the Lakers and Knicks, with whom Davis has indicated a willingness to sign for the long term.Davis has missed six games with a finger injury but was seeking to play in both of New Orleans’ games this week. The Pelicans, however, opted to hold Davis out while working on trades and have not yet disclosed whether they plan to allow Davis to return to the lineup if he is not traded this week. Davis, according to a person with knowledge of his thinking, would like to play out the season with the Pelicans if no trade materializes before the deadline, despite the fact that the injury risk would be significant for both player and team.The trade saga has rocked both the Pelicans and the Lakers. Los Angeles suffered a 42-point defeat Tuesday night amid the constant speculation about the Lakers trying to package Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma with draft picks to acquire Davis with a goal of pairing one of the game’s best big men with the LeBron James. Both Davis and James are represented by the agent Rich Paul.Despite having missed 14 games through injury, Davis is in the midst of another outstanding season. In 41 games, he is averaging career highs in points (29.3), rebounds (13.3) and assists (4.4) per game and has been selected by Western Conference coaches to appear in the Feb. 17 All-Star Game in Charlotte.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Rajon Rondo has had a difficult time for the Lakers. He was suspended after brawling with the Houston Rockets in the second game of the season. He proceeded to mangle his right hand not just once, but twice, requiring surgery both times while missing a total of 31 games. And in recent weeks, he has been coming off the bench for Coach Luke Walton, even as Lonzo Ball, who had been starting at point guard, continues to recover from an ankle injury.Rondo, a 13-year pro, was supposed to be an invaluable presence for the Lakers, who had otherwise surrounded LeBron James in Year 1 of the West Coast LeBron era with a cast of unproven (if promising) players and a hodgepodge of reclamation projects. Nobody thought this team would vie for a championship, but the road has been rougher than expected.In the wake of a recent two-game road trip to New Orleans and Memphis that resulted in two deflating losses and the very real sense that the Lakers could miss the playoffs, Walton approached Rondo for a quiet conversation. Walton wanted to put him back in the starting lineup for Wednesday’s game against the Pelicans, and Rondo was on board with the plan.After all, what did the Lakers have to lose? Aside from losing another game that they desperately needed to win.“We sat there and talked,” Walton said. “He’s been fine with his role. He wants to play more — everyone wants to play more. But he hasn’t been complaining or anything like that. But our conversation was one of: ‘Let’s talk about what we need to do. How do we get back on track?’ It was an honest conversation. It was healthy and positive.”As far as confidence-building exercises go, the Lakers’ subsequent 125-119 victory over the Pelicans was not necessarily Grade A material. The Pelicans have their own issues, and their star center Anthony Davis, who had hoped to be playing for the Lakers after this month’s trade deadline, was on a strict minutes limit as the Pelicans eye a summer sweepstakes for his services. (They would like to keep his limbs intact in the meantime.)But Walton’s favorite verb after the game was “need,” as in the Lakers needed the win and needed some positive vibes.Sure enough, Rondo helped a great deal, finishing with 16 assists, 11 points and 7 rebounds in 37 minutes.“I’m very confident in what Rondo has done in this league,” Walton said. “He’s struggled a little bit, but some of that’s on me. His minutes have been down. We’ve been trying to find different groups to work. But he’s proven over his career that when he gets an opportunity, he shows up to play.”Rondo was not particularly adept from the perimeter, shooting 5 of 15 from the field, and Davis feasted on the Lakers’ smaller lineup when he was on the court. Walton knows those could be more pressing issues against better teams. But for one night, the Lakers (30-31) allowed themselves to savor some hard-earned momentum — because it might not last.The Lakers, who have been hindered this season by injuries and trade-deadline intrigue, are not a great basketball team. The question is whether they are merely mediocre, with a chance of still making the playoffs, or not very good at all, in which case they will have wasted their first year with James on the roster.It hardly helps that the Lakers have one of the league’s most difficult schedules the rest of the way, starting Friday when they host the Milwaukee Bucks, who improved to 47-14 on Wednesday with a win against the Sacramento Kings. The Lakers’ coming schedule also includes meetings with playoff-bound teams like the Denver Nuggets and the Toronto Raptors.“Every day is going to be its own challenge,” James said, adding: “Just try to stay positive throughout whatever’s going on.”Rondo had experienced his own set of challenges ahead of Wednesday’s game. He was coming off a pair of dreadful performances during the team’s recent two-game trip, averaging 4.5 points and 2 assists off the bench while shooting 36.4 percent from the field. He was a nonfactor, or perhaps even a net negative.“I didn’t have the rhythm on both ends of the floor,” Rondo said. “That’s why we have 82 games. You have the opportunity to play again and redeem yourself.”At Wednesday’s shootaround, center Tyson Chandler kept yelling, “energy, energy, energy,” Rondo said. And during the game itself, the players focused on their body language — lots of hugs and high-fives — in addition to actually playing some defense for a change. Walton was also pleased that the Lakers had 37 assists to go with just eight turnovers.“It’s a lot of fun when your guys are playing like that,” he said.Forget that the Pelicans are struggling. Forget that James needed to sink a fadeaway 3-pointer from the corner with 31.3 seconds left to seal the win and sidestep disaster. Forget that Julius Randle, a center the Lakers let walk in free agency last summer, torched his old team for 35 points in the loss.Forget all this until Friday, when Rondo and the rest of the Lakers are sure to face an even stiffer challenge.Advertisement
Giannis or Harden for M.V.P.? Who makes the Warriors better: Steph or K.D.? Marc Stein considers these questions and more in the latest edition of his newsletter.Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate for this season’s Most Valuable Player Award.CreditCreditMorry Gash/Associated PressSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to get this newsletter from Marc Stein each week — for free? Sign up here.]As the 2018-19 regular season dribbles to a close, with just two nights and 22 of 1,230 games to go, voters leaguewide are finalizing their year-end award ballots in six major categories. I am no longer one of them, because The New York Times does not permit its reporters to vote for such awards, but it’s still a useful exercise as we take stock of the season to break down each race and who I would have picked.Official selections are due Friday night and there is simply no wrong answer when choosing between Antetokounmpo and Houston’s James Harden for the top spot on the five-man M.V.P. ballot.I have always approached this category by trying to identify who had the best overall season — based on a subjective and imprecise mixture of individual and team success — rather than paying attention to the noise about which player is most widely regarded as the game’s best … or the best two-way player … or any other such designation.So who had the better 2018-19 season? I would go (ever so narrowly) with Giannis. On top of all his individual superlatives, Antetokounmpo has been the face and chief culture-setter in the Bucks’ transformation from 44-win underachiever to the best team in the league (regular-season edition). And his candidacy gets bonus points on our scorecard because Milwaukee, for Eastern Conference supremacy, had to beat out a trio of worthy challengers who were all projected as superior before the season.Harden would be tremendously unlucky to finish second in M.V.P. balloting for the third time in five seasons, but I think that’s where this is headed. He is going to be the first scoring champion (36.1 points per game) to win the scoring title by more than eight points per game since Michael Jordan did over Dominique Wilkins in 1986-87. And I tend to agree with Houston Coach Mike D’Antoni’s contention that Harden is the only player capable of hauling the injury-riddled Rockets to 53 victories out of the 11-14 hole they were in. Harden simply has the misfortune of doing all that damage in a season that belonged to Antetokounmpo and the Bucks.It feels as though I have been writing and tweeting about Doncic and his Atlanta Hawks counterpart Trae Young all season. I suspect I will be writing about the two of them for the next decade-plus. And I’m fine with that.Doncic has had the start-to-finish stronger campaign and continued to look like a franchise player even though the Mavericks steadily increased his Year 1 workload after trading away four-fifths of their starting lineup in February. The trade brought in Kristaps Porzingis and better positions Dallas to build out a supporting cast tailored to their electric European import.Young has delivered even more impressive post-All-Star break production (24.9 points per game and 9.1 assists per game) for a scrappy Hawks team with a passable record of 23-29 since its dismal 6-23 start — and an increasingly bright future.Doncic is going to win the race, but Young overcame his own worrisome launch to make it a competition — and a rivalry that should have staying power — with his second-half surge.Doncic will be remembered as the only rookie in N.B.A. history not named Oscar Robertson to average at least 20 points, 7 rebounds and 5 assists. And Young can take solace in being almost as unfortunate as Harden if he doesn’t win the hardware. It’s quite a compliment when you think about it.Had the Indiana Pacers won 50 games in a season in which Victor Oladipo was healthy enough to play only 36, Nate McMillan would have the résumé to deny the Bucks’ Budenholzer. I’m not sure McMillan is miles off with 47 wins.Doc Rivers of the Los Angeles Clippers, like McMillan, is another victim of bad timing. Rivers hasn’t had a team overachieve like these starless Clippers since his rookie season on the bench with Orlando in 1999-2000 when the Magic won a wholly unexpected 41 games in a season billed as a placeholder before a splashy free-agent summer that ultimately landed Grant Hill and Tracy McGrady in the Magic Kingdom.But Milwaukee’s improvement in Budenholzer’s first season has been so dramatic that I can’t see how he doesn’t win his second Coach of the Year trophy. Perhaps some voters will try to convince themselves that the Bucks would be getting too much love if they vote for both Giannis for M.V.P. and Bud for this honor. But we’re talking about the league’s only 60-win team … and the runaway champions in average point differential for the season (+9.1) … and the only team in the league to rank in the top five in both offensive and defensive efficiency.Antetokounmpo is the biggest reason all that is possible. General Manager Jon Horst is likewise on an impressive run of roster moves. But Budenholzer’s impact has been undeniable.Honorable mentions, along with McMillan and Rivers: Denver’s Mike Malone, Brooklyn’s Kenny Atkinson, Portland’s Terry Stotts, Orlando’s Steve Clifford, Detroit’s Dwane Casey, Golden State’s Steve Kerr and, of course, San Antonio’s Gregg Popovich.Manu Ginobili, who just had his familiar No. 20 retired by the San Antonio Spurs, used to be synonymous with sixth man excellence to me. Ditto for Jamal Crawford.Yet I’d say Williams wears that crown now.The Clippers’ designated scorer won this award last season and stands as a huge favorite to join Crawford as the league’s only three-time winner — despite the challenge he’s getting from teammate Montrezl Harrell.Someone from the Clippers has to win some year-end recognition in light of the Cinderella season they’ve assembled. Williams makes the most sense over a quality field that also features Harrell, Indiana’s Domantas Sabonis, Brooklyn’s Spencer Dinwiddie, New Orleans’ Julius Randle and San Antonio’s Davis Bertans.As the self-proclaimed overseer of the All-Lefty Team, it pains me to snub both D’Angelo Russell of the Nets and Sacramento’s De’Aaron Fox in this category.But I’ve been saying for years that ultra-high former draft picks like Russell and second-year players like Fox are not going to be Most Improved candidates for me. Russell made a tremendous, inspiring leap to All-Star status in Brooklyn this season, but the wow factor partly stems from the fact that he fell so far short of expectations in his first three seasons. Fox, meanwhile, made the sort of Year 1-to-Year 2 leap Sacramento was counting on from someone it billed as a franchise cornerstone.No one expected Siakam to become an impact player at both ends and a borderline All-Star who helped the Raptors to post 57 wins amid the 22 games Kawhi Leonard missed for various reasons of injury and precaution.The nostalgic sap in me, truth be told, wanted to go with Minnesota’s resurgent Derrick Rose. But D-Rose only wound up being healthy enough to appear in 51 games — and as a former M.V.P. he’s more of a Comeback Player of the Year than a Most Improved candidate. The N.B.A.’s specific instructions in this category read as follows: “This award is designed to honor an up-and-coming player who has made a dramatic improvement from the previous season or seasons. It is not intended to be given to a player who has made a ‘comeback.’ ”Siakam, in other words, is perfect. He’s a former No. 27 overall pick who zoomed from role player to foundational player — either beside Leonard or in a post-Kawhi world should Leonard flee Canada in free agency this summer.Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate here, too, as is Oklahoma City’s Paul George and Indiana’s Myles Turner. But the Bucks, at least on this mythical ballot, will have to settle for two of the six top prizes.Three would have been too many. Especially since Utah’s Gobert remains such a dominant deterrent at the rim in his role as the anchor for a defense that officially ranks No. 2 but is essentially on par with Milwaukee’s.[Marc Stein’s newsletter will have the latest on the N.B.A. playoffs, which start Saturday. Sign up here.]You ask; I answer. Every week in this space, I’ll field three questions posed via email at marcstein-newsletter@nytimes.com. (Please include your first and last name, as well as the city you’re writing in from, and make sure the subject line reads “Corner Three.”)Q: Deandre Ayton hasn’t had a terrible rookie year, but it has paled in comparison to what we’ve seen from Luka Doncic and Trae Young. What do you think Ayton needs to improve on — and will he ever match Luka or Trae’s potential? — Henry Roth (Scottsdale, Ariz.)STEIN: It speaks to how far the Suns have faded from prominence that Ayton, as the No. 1 overall pick last June, got so little attention given the numbers he posted (16.3 points and 10.3 rebounds per game).The leaguewide fascination with Doncic and Young is also a factor, as you mentioned, but Ayton was overlooked in the extreme this season. Suns fans should be hoping that the snub helps motivate Ayton in Year 2, because consistency and sustained energy have been issues for him so far.From a technical standpoint, Ayton has to develop into more of a rim protector. With his mobility and athleticism, Phoenix should be able to build a defense around him. He’s not close to elite yet at that end.But it would also be unfair to ignore that Ayton was frequently forced to start alongside two other rookies on a squad that still doesn’t have a starter-level N.B.A. point guard.Q: Dirk Nowitzki hasn’t come out and said he is retiring, but everyone else seems to be saying it. At first I didn’t believe Adam Silver would have put Dirk in the All-Star Game if he didn’t have it on good authority that Dirk would soon retire, but could this actually not be his final year? It looks like Dirk’s ankle has finally recovered from surgery and he’s moving a lot better. Why not play one more season with Luka Doncic and Kristaps Porzingis and try to go out with a playoff berth? — Sharad AcharyaSTEIN: This much I can tell you: Dirk joining Dwyane Wade in the All-Star Game as a so-called “commissioner’s pick” has nothing to do with Nowitzki’s retirement plans. As Dirk stated before, during and after his trip to Charlotte, this was his All-Star swan song no matter what, even if he decided to play next season.I think there have been times since the All-Star break when an encouraged Nowitzki has imagined himself carrying on. He’s been a huge Porzingis fan for years and would naturally love to experience the Doncic/Porzingis tandem. But the reality is that season No. 21 has been a bigger challenge physically than he ever imagined.Is it really worth putting his body through the rigors of yet another nine-month ride? The case against coming back is much stronger than the case for it, which is why you’ve heard the likes of Mark Cuban and Steve Nash give interviews in recent days that make it sound as though the end is near.Q: I’d like to hear your thoughts on how Stephen Curry makes everyone else on the floor better and how that may not necessarily be the case with Kevin Durant? — Michael DortheimerSTEIN: Anyone who believes this must not have watched the last two N.B.A. finals.Steph is Golden State’s No. 1 playmaker and a true revolutionary when it comes to the way his seemingly limitless shooting range bends defenses.But there’s a reason Durant has won back-to-back M.V.P. trophies in the finals. He’s the best finisher in the game and was the best player on the floor on the game’s grandest stage two years in a row.The Warriors are 32-6 in the playoffs since Durant arrived. Who would dare say he doesn’t make all of the other Warriors better just by being out there?Curry has the ball in his hands more, which surely fuels the perception you describe, but Durant commands more double teams than any other Warrior and is a great passer both out of the post and in pick-and-roll situations. There is no shortage of coaches and scouts around the league who regard him as an elite playmaker.This is the fifth time in the Knicks’ 73-season history that they’ve had the league’s worst record. The first three times, there were fewer than 10 teams in the league: 1960-61 (21-58 in an eight-team league), 1962-63 (21-59 in a nine-team league) and 1964-65 (22-58 in a nine-team league). The Knicks were also at the bottom of a 23-team league in 1985-86 at 23-59. At 16-64 so far this season, the Knicks will post the lowest win total in franchise history unless they win at least one of their final two games. Utah’s Rudy Gobert is poised to finish this season with more dunks than anyone else, with 301 dunks to Antetokounmpo’s 279 for Milwaukee. Gobert, though, has played in all 80 of Utah’s games this season. Antetokounmpo has missed 12 of the Bucks’ 81 games to date. Antetokounmpo’s Bucks finished 18th in defensive rating last season. They’ve climbed 17 spots this season to rank No. 1 overall entering Tuesday’s play, allowing 104.8 points per 100 possessions. Jason Terry’s 590 regular-season games alongside Dirk are the most of any teammate in Nowitzki’s 21 seasons in Dallas. J.J. Barea ranks second (and No. 1 among active Mavericks) with 543 regular-season games. The Mavericks say Nowitzki has had 197 teammates.This is the 39th consecutive season, according to the peerless data maintained by Basketball-Reference.com, during which the average height of N.B.A. players is 6-foot-7. The last season that featured a different figure was 1979-80, when the average height of N.B.A. players was 6-foot-6.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — On Thursday morning, in the middle of a six-game road trip that had produced its share of duds, Knicks Coach David Fizdale started practice by gathering his players for an announcement: Kevin Knox, a first-year forward, had been named the N.B.A.’s Eastern Conference rookie of the month for December.The news was well received by Knox’s teammates. Emmanuel Mudiay and Mario Hezonja rubbed Knox’s head as Frank Ntilikina made a halfhearted attempt to jump on his back. Knox appeared genuinely surprised — and pleased. The award seemed to validate his hard work while offering the Knicks (10-29) a reprieve from a season that was long ago sacrificed to the twin gods of player development and the draft lottery.Such sacrifices, of course, have become a franchise specialty.“I still have a lot of work to do,” Knox said.And so do the Knicks, who arrived to face the Los Angeles Lakers (21-18) at Staples Center on Friday night having lost eight straight.But then, another flicker of joy: The Knicks left with a 119-112 victory that they described as cathartic, even if the Lakers were without LeBron James, Kyle Kuzma and Rajon Rondo, all sidelined with injuries.At this point, the Knicks care little for such technicalities. James L. Dolan, the team owner, was in town for the game and visited the locker room afterward to congratulate the team.“When we win, we celebrate like it’s the Super Bowl,” Fizdale said. “Why not?”The Knicks were right to savor the win: Who knows when the next one will come? They still need to visit the Portland Trail Blazers and the Golden State Warriors before returning to New York on Friday, and one game will neither change the trajectory of their season nor mask their daily challenges.But it was important in its own way.“We’ll try to run with the momentum,” Tim Hardaway Jr. said.The Knicks have an odd roster made up of veterans on expiring contracts and inexperienced players who are still learning the business of pro basketball. And that mix, which is almost a 50-50 split, has caused some problems, Fizdale said, not among players in the locker room — “They like each other,” he said — but in terms of the team’s on-court chemistry.Before the Knicks arrived in Los Angeles, the first half of their road trip featured a 16-point loss to the Milwaukee Bucks, a 32-point loss to the Utah Jazz and a 7-point loss to the Denver Nuggets.“We are so young and we have so many guys in contract years fighting for their lives that I’ve got to get this group to move the ball,” Fizdale said. “The numbers say that when we pass the ball, we win. And when we don’t pass, we lose.”He went on to acknowledge the inevitable “friction” between players who are vying for their next deals (and may feel more urgency to produce) and those who have the luxury of being included in the team’s long-term plan. For the most part, Fizdale has been favoring the young players with promise.“That’s just part of this league, and that’s the juggling act that I have to handle,” Fizdale said. “Am I always going to be right? No. But will I always be upfront and honest about where we are and what we’re doing? Yes.”Enes Kanter, one of the aforementioned veterans who will be a free agent this summer, has gone public with his displeasure over his diminished role. Kanter got an opportunity off the bench against the Lakers and delivered, finishing with 16 points and 15 rebounds.“I don’t want no free money,” Kanter said. “This organization pays me money to go out and play as hard as I can and just fight. So I’m going to give my everything.”Kanter, though, is not the only one to voice frustration. Hardaway, who figures to be a part of the team’s future, has alluded to the toll of losing, to the thankless process of a perpetual rebuild. He does not subscribe to the idea that the Knicks should be tanking games to increase their odds of getting the top pick in the draft lottery.“I’m a competitor,” Hardaway said. “None of us got here by losing ballgames for our respective ball clubs when we were in college or in high school. Everybody was winners. Everybody wanted to win. Just to be in this situation is tough, but it builds character.”One of the bright spots has been the improved play of Knox, who averaged 17.1 points and 6 rebounds while shooting 38.4 percent from 3-point range during December.Against the Lakers, Knox made back-to-back 3-pointers early in the first quarter, then sliced through the lane for a dunk and a 17-point lead. The game was barely six minutes old. James, in a dark blazer, watched with a dour expression from behind the home bench. (He is expected to miss at least another week because of a groin injury.) The Knicks, after giving up their lead, held on late, thanks to some solid defense.Knox finished with 14 points in 37 minutes, which is the sort of workload to which he is becoming accustomed.“We talked about building him into a premier N.B.A. player who can play both ends of the floor,” Fizdale said, “and we’re trying to give him a taste of what that entails. It’s not necessarily the minutes you play, but what you’re doing with those minutes from an effort standpoint, from a competitive standpoint: How many calories are you burning?”For one night, the burn was worth it. The Knicks can only hope it is a sign of things to come.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Luke Kennard scored 27 points, Reggie Jackson had 21 and Andre Drummond added 20 points and 18 rebounds as the Detroit Pistons locked up the Eastern Conference's final playoff spot with a 115-89 victory over the New York Knicks on Wednesday night.The Pistons will face the top-seeded Milwaukee Bucks in the opening round.Jackson scored 14 points and Drummond had 10 points and seven rebounds in the first quarter as the Pistons never trailed and led by as many as 16 points. Neither Jackson nor Drummond played in the fourth quarter.Wayne Ellington added 12 points for the Pistons, who hadn't made the playoffs since the 2015-16 season, the last time they finished over .500 (44-38). Before, Detroit hadn't made the postseason since 2008-09.John Jenkins led the Knicks with 16 points, and Kadeem Allen added 13. Henry Ellenson scored 12 points, and Mitchell Robinson and Isaiah Hicks each had 11.NUGGETS 99, TIMBERWOLVES 95DENVER (AP) — Nikola Jokic had 29 points, 14 rebounds and had a key strip in the closing seconds as Denver scored the game's final 15 points and secured the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs.James Murray added 17 for the Nuggets, who are in the postseason for the first time in six years and will face seventh-seeded San Antonio.Gorgui Dieng added 18 points for the Timberwolves backups and rookie Cameron Reynolds scored a career-best 17 points, including a 3-pointer that put Minnesota ahead 95-84 with 4:01 left.TRAIL BLAZERS 136, KINGS 131PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) — Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a career-high 37 points in his first start of the season and Portland secured the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference using just six players in a win over Sacramento.The Blazers have won 14 of 17 games en route to their sixth straight trip to the playoffs. Portland will open the postseason against the Oklahoma City Thunder, who finished in sixth.Marvin Bagley III had 20 points to lead the Kings, who lost their 11th straight game in Portland.CLIPPERS 143, JAZZ 137, OTLOS ANGELES (AP) — Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead seven players in double figures and the Clippers beat Utah in overtime, snapping a three-game skid to close the regular season.Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Patrick Beverley had 14 points in his return from injury.The Clippers' losing streak had already dropped them from the sixth seed to No. 8 in the playoffs, where they'll open against the defending champion Golden State Warriors.Grayson Allen led Utah with a career-high 40 points. The rookie made 13 of 14 free throws and five 3-pointers, but was limited to four points in overtime.The Jazz earned the fifth seed and they'll play No. 4 Houston in the first round.THUNDER 127, BUCKS 116MILWAUKEE (AP) — Russell Westbrook got his 34th triple-double of the season and Oklahoma City beat Milwaukee to lock up the sixth seed in the Western Conference playoffs.Oklahoma City played without injured Paul George, but Westbrook, Jerami Grant and Dennis Schroder led a hot-shooting effort from 3-point range. Westbrook had 15 points, 17 assists and 11 rebounds. He moved into a tie with Magic Johnson for second place on the career triple-double list with 138. Schroder had 32 points, and Grant added a career-best 28.The Bucks had already clinched the No. 1 seed in the Eastern Conference and rested star Giannis Antetokounmpo and some other key players.Khris Middleton scored 21 points in 17 minutes. Tim Frazier scored a career-high 29 points and D.J. Wilson added a career-high 18 while grabbing 17 rebounds. Rookie Bonzie Colson started and scored 21 points.MAGIC 122, HORNETS 114CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) — Kemba Walker scored 43 points in what may be his final game with Charlotte, a loss to Orlando that eliminated the Hornets from playoff contention.Terrence Ross scored a season-high 35 points, Aaron Gordon added 27 and the Magic clinched the seventh seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs and will face the Toronto Raptors in the first round.Aside from Walker's sharp shooting, nothing went right for Charlotte on the final night of the regular season. The loss also means Tony Parker's string of 17 straight playoff appearances is over.NETS 113, HEAT 94NEW YORK (AP) — Dwyane Wade recorded one last triple-double before heading off to retirement, and Brooklyn headed to Philadelphia to take on the 76ers in the first round of the Eastern Conference playoffs after securing the win and the No. 6 seed.Wade had 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in his final NBA game with close friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony leading the cheers from their courtside seats.D'Angelo Russell had 21 points on seven 3-pointers for the Nets, who will face the third-seeded 76ers beginning this weekend in their first postseason appearance since 2015.SPURS 105, MAVERICKS 94SAN ANTONIO (AP) — LaMarcus Aldridge had 34 points and 16 rebounds and San Antonio beat Dallas in Dirk Nowitzki's final game.Nowitzki finished with 20 points and 10 rebounds in the finale of his storied 21-season career — all with the Mavericks.The Spurs head into the Western Conference playoffs as the No. 7 seed.DeMar Derozan finished with 19 points and Derrick White added 14 for the Spurs, who finished with a 49-34 record.GRIZZLIES 132, WARRIORS 117MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) — Jevon Carter scored a career-high 32 points, Justin Holiday added 22 and Memphis beat Golden State in the teams' regular-season finale.Kevin Durant led the Warriors with 21 points, while Klay Thompson finished with 19. Durant and Thompson, who sat out Tuesday's win at New Orleans, were the only Golden State starters to play. Both saw action only in the first half.Golden State entered the game with its playoff position set atop of the Western Conference and sat most of its stars.Carter, a rookie from West Virginia who was averaging 3.7 points, was 10 of 18 from the field and 8 of 12 from 3-point range. Memphis was helped by 21-of-46 shooting from 3-point range.Bruno Caboclo scored 21 points, and Delon Wright recorded his third triple-double in the last four games with 13 points, 11 rebounds and 11 assists.76ERS 125, BULLS 109PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points to lead Philadelphia over Chicago in the regular-season finale for both teams.In preparation for the playoffs, the 76ers rested all five starters, and star center Joel Embiid's status for the opener is in question. The third-seeded Sixers said the 7-foot center's achy left knee may prevent him from playing in the postseason opener this weekend against sixth-seeded Brooklyn.Walt Lemon Jr. scored 20 points to lead the Bulls, who were without Denzel Valentine, Wendell Carter Jr., Chandler Hutchison, Zach LaVine, Lauri Markkanen, Otto Porter Jr. and Kris Dunn.PACERS 135, HAWKS 134ATLANTA (AP) — Edmond Sumner sank three free throws with three-tenths of a second remaining, lifting playoff-bound Indiana past Atlanta.Taurean Prince's 3-pointer with 1.1 seconds remaining gave Atlanta the lead, but DeAndre Bembry's foul on Sumner's last-second 3-point attempt changed the game.TJ Leaf set career highs with 28 points and 10 rebounds for Indiana.Tyreke Evans scored 27 points and Sumner had 22 as the Pacers won despite resting most of their top scorers.Prince and Trae Young each scored 23 points for Atlanta. John Collins scored 20 points and set a career high with 25 rebounds.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points. At age 39, he became the oldest player ever to reach 50 in an NBA game.Heat 122, 76ers 99Dwyane Wade, playing the final home game of his NBA career, scored 30 points to lead Miami over Philadelphia.Wade made 10 of 23 shots, including 4 of 10 on attempts from beyond the arc. It was his second-highest scoring game of the season. But it was a bittersweet night for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention earlier in the evening when the Detroit Pistons rallied from a 22-point deficit to defeat the Memphis Grizzlies.Philadelphia, which has already clinched the third seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs, rested two of its stars: Joel Embiid, who was listed as having a knee injury, and JJ Redick (back).Warriors 112, Pelicans 103DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds against his former team as visiting Golden State defeated New Orleans.After clinching home-court advantage throughout the Western Conference playoffs on Sunday, the Warriors had Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson, Andre Iguodala and Andrew Bogut among their inactive players. Stephen Curry left for game after scoring five points in nine minutes in what the Warriors called "a precaution" after he sustained a mild foot sprain.Jahlil Okafor scored 30 points to lead the short-handed Pelicans, who dressed just eight players and finished the season 33-49.Raptors 120, Timberwolves 100Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points as visiting Toronto completed its regular-season schedule with a victory over Minnesota.The Raptors (58-24) secured the second-best record in the Eastern Conference with the win, behind only the Milwaukee Bucks (60-21), who play their final game Wednesday.Fred VanVleet added 16 points for the Raptors, Chris Boucher added career bests with 15 points and 13 rebounds, and Pascal Siakam and Norman Powell each scored 10 points. Gorgui Dieng and Andrew Wiggins each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves.Jazz 118, Nuggets 108Donovan Mitchell matched his career best of 46 points, and Utah posted a victory over Denver in Salt Lake City.Rudy Gobert added 20 points and 10 rebounds as Utah notched its ninth straight home win against Denver. Utah locked up the No. 5 seed for the Western Conference playoffs.Malik Beasley scored 25 points on 9-of-13 shooting for the Nuggets, who have lost four of their past six games and are a half-game ahead of Houston after the Rockets fell to the Oklahoma City Thunder on Tuesday.Trail Blazers 104, Lakers 101Instead of quietly sneaking into the offseason after losing its season finale to playoff-bound Portland, Los Angeles made some noise when Magic Johnson announced his resignation as president of basketball operations for the team.The game still meant something for Portland, though, and the Trail Blazers clinched home-court advantage in the first round of the Western Conference playoffs when Maurice Harkless made a 3-pointer at the buzzer for a win. The Trail Blazers can overtake the Rockets on a tiebreaker to finish third in the West with a win against the visiting Sacramento Kings on Wednesday.Harkless, who left the previous game with left hip tightness, finished with 26 points. Kentavious Caldwell-Pope had 32 points and eight assists for the Lakers, who finished with 37 wins -- two more than last season.Thunder 112, Rockets 111Russell Westbrook scored 29 points, but it was Paul George's corner 3-pointer with 1.8 seconds left that sent Oklahoma City to a home win over Houston.Oklahoma City trailed by 14 early in the fourth quarter and by four in the final minute before Westbrook's and George's heroics.James Harden made his first 12 free throws in the game but with less than 10 seconds left and Houston on top 111-109, he missed one, giving the Thunder a chance to tie or take the lead. Westbrook barreled up the court, briefly handing the ball off to Steven Adams near midcourt before getting the ball and firing it to George in the corner for what proved to be the game-winner.Celtics 116, Wizards 100Terry Rozier led seven Boston players in double figures with 21 points as his team closed out the regular season with a win over host Washington.The Celtics rallied from a 13-point, third-quarter deficit for their sixth win in eight games. Boston, which played without Marcus Smart, Jayson Tatum, Kyrie Irving, Al Horford, Marcus Morris, Aron Baynes and Gordon Hayward, will be the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs.Semi Ojeleye, Brad Wanamaker and RJ Hunter had 17 points apiece for Boston, which outscored Washington 27-15 in the fourth quarter. Tomas Satoransky led the Wizards with 19 points, and Bradley Beal scored 16 points in 16 minutes. Beal became the first person in franchise history to finish a season averaging at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists per game.Pistons 100, Grizzlies 93Andre Drummond scored 20 points and grabbed 17 rebounds, and Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to defeat visiting Memphis.Despite winning, the Pistons were unable to clinch the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. The Charlotte Hornets beat the Cleveland Cavaliers and remain one game behind Detroit heading into Wednesday night's final regular-season games. The Pistons finish against the Knicks at New York while the Hornets host the Orlando Magic.The Pistons, who trailed by 22 in the second quarter, climbed all the way back and took an 85-83 lead on Ish Smith's jumper just moments after his 3-pointer tied the score at 83-all. Smith finished with 22 points off the bench, and Luke Kennard added 15 for Detroit.Hornets 124, Cavaliers 97Kemba Walker and Jeremy Lamb scored 23 points apiece, and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive with a victory over host Cleveland.The Hornets led by 12 points in the first half and then pushed the lead all the way to 27 in the fourth quarter, winning their fourth straight and eighth in their past 11 games. They hit a season-high 22 3-pointers on 44 attempts and shot 57.7 percent from the field.Miles Bridges and Dwayne Bacon added 18 points apiece for the Hornets. Frank Kaminsky scored 14 and Devonte Graham had 10. Collin Sexton led the Cavs with 18 points.Knicks 96, Bulls 86Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points and Kevin Knox and Luke Kornet each notched double-doubles to lead New York past host Chicago.Knox had 17 points and 10 rebounds, Kornet chipped in 12 points and 13 rebounds and Damyean Dotson added 12 points for the Knicks (17-64), who are already assured of the NBA's worst record this season. They can do no worse than tie the franchise record for fewest wins in a regular season, set in 2014-15.The Bulls closed the home portion of their schedule with a 9-32 record, setting a franchise record for home futility. The 2000-01 team held the previous club standard for fewest home victories with 10.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinWith all of the trade drama surrounding Anthony Davis and Kristaps Porzingis, the N.B.A. intruded on the N.F.L.’s run-up to the Super Bowl as we have not seen since Kobe Bryant scored 81 points on football’s so-called Championship Sunday in 2006.Now that the Super Bowl is over and even more of North America’s sporting consciousness is there to be seized by professional basketball’s tireless headline-makers, here is our best advice: Buckle up.What follows is a by-the-numbers look at what the N.B.A.’s 73rd season has served up so far — and what the next five months hold.Through Sunday’s games, only the Milwaukee Bucks were on a 60-win pace. The Bucks’ Eastern Conference-leading record of 38-13 projects to a 61-win campaign — which could keep this season from being the league’s first since 2000-1 without a 60-win club.There are realistically 11 teams battling for the Western Conference’s eight playoff spots, after the new calendar year began with 14 teams in the conference — all but Phoenix — in the race. Dallas, New Orleans and Memphis have dropped off in January, prompting all three teams to focus more on trades than the standings.The consensus top three in the Most Valuable Player Award race coming out of Super Bowl weekend are Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo, Houston’s James Harden and Denver’s Nikola Jokic. According to the Basketball-Reference.com M.V.P. Award Tracker, Antetokounmpo awoke Sunday with a 37.8 percent chance of winning — far ahead of Harden’s 21.1 percent.Harden has scored at least 30 points in 26 consecutive games, good for the third-longest such streak in N.B.A. annals behind Wilt Chamberlain’s streaks of 65 and 31.The league’s trade deadline (Thursday at 3 p.m. Eastern) is three days away. This is the second season since 1978-79 (as far back as reliable N.B.A. record-keeping goes) that the deadline falls before the All-Star Game.The New Orleans Pelicans have made two trips to the playoffs — winning only one series — in Davis’s first six seasons with the team. Davis requested a trade on Jan. 28.It took 54 days for the Minnesota Timberwolves to find a trade they liked for Jimmy Butler after Butler’s request to be dealt became public Sept. 18. Butler was snubbed by East coaches in All-Star voting, but the potential ceiling for Philadelphia’s rugged new star threesome was evident Thursday night at Golden State, when Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Butler and Company brought a halt to the longest winning streak of the season — after the Warriors had won 11 in a row.Minnesota is 21-18 since the trade that sent Butler and Justin Patton to Philadelphia on Nov. 12 — and 6-6 since firing Tom Thibodeau, the coach/team president who made it, on Jan. 6. Ryan Saunders, Thibodeau’s 32-year-old replacement, has many admirers around the league, but the Wolves are a long way from convincing skeptics that the deal (to bring in Robert Covington, Dario Saric, Jerryd Bayless and a 2022 second-round pick) was sufficient for a player of Butler’s caliber.Thibodeau is one of three coaches to be fired this season — after nine coaching changes in the off-season. The other coaches to lose their jobs since opening night: Cleveland’s Tyronn Lue and Chicago’s Fred Hoiberg.There were 20 teams, entering Sunday’s play, attempting at least 30 3-pointers a game. This is poised to become the first season in N.B.A. history that the leaguewide average per game (31.4) will finish in the 30s.With coaches calling for more 3-pointers than ever before and greenlighting shots earlier and earlier in the 24-second shot clock — along with a new rule that resets the shot clock at 14 seconds on offensive rebounds — teams are averaging 100.0 possessions per 48 minutes leaguewide. The last N.B.A. season in which that figure finished in triple digits was 1988-89 (100.6).Milwaukee’s Khris Middleton, Orlando’s Nikola Vucevic, Philadelphia’s Simmons and Denver’s Jokic will make their All-Star Game debuts Feb. 17 in Charlotte, N.C. The All-Star player draft, in which the captains LeBron James and Antetokounmpo will fill out 13-man rosters by picking players playground-style, is Thursday at 7 p.m. — just four hours after the trade deadline passes. (D’Angelo Russell of the Nets, who was named later as a replacement for Indiana’s Victor Oladipo, who is injured, will also be making his All-Star debut this year.)Four teams are in contention for the league’s worst record: Phoenix (11-43), Cleveland (11-42), Chicago (12-41) and, of course, the Knicks (10-42). The teams that finish in the bottom three will share a 14 percent chance of landing the No. 1 overall pick in the draft in June in the first year of the league’s revised lottery system.San Antonio sits a surprising fifth in the West, at 32-22, in its first season since trading Kawhi Leonard to Toronto in July. The Spurs are bidding for a record 22nd consecutive playoff berth, a streak that began in Gregg Popovich’s first full season as Spurs coach in 1997-98.At 27-25, Sacramento is on course to post its first winning record since the 2005-6 season. But the Kings will have to leapfrog at least two teams to stop the league’s longest playoff drought (12 seasons). The Suns (nine seasons) and the Orlando Magic (seven) are on course to extend their own playoff droughts.The Lakers’ playoff drought will hit a hard-to-believe six seasons in a row if James cannot save Los Angeles over its final 29 games. James just missed 17 consecutive games with a strained groin — the longest injury absence of his pro career — and is at risk for missing the postseason for the first time since his second N.B.A. season, in 2004-5.Carmelo Anthony finally became an unrestricted free agent on Sunday after clearing waivers nearly three months after the Houston Rockets sent him away in November after just 10 games together. The Rockets traded Anthony to Chicago on Jan. 21; the Bulls, who needed a roster spot, waived him Friday without him spending a single second with the team.In the seven games Golden State has deployed a lineup of DeMarcus Cousins, Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green, that group is averaging 127.1 points per 100 possessions in 54 minutes. Call it a small but ominous sample size.Oddsmakers in Las Vegas have the Warriors as overwhelming favorites to win their third consecutive championship and fourth in five seasons. According to ActionNetwork.com, Golden State is -225 to win it all, meaning that you would have to bet $225 to win $100. Boston, Milwaukee and Toronto are next in line at +1,000, meaning that a $100 bet would win $1,000 if any of those teams won the title.One scribe’s ranking of the top 10 players who could be unrestricted free agents July 1: Durant, Leonard, Kyrie Irving, Thompson, Butler, Kemba Walker, Cousins, Middleton, Marc Gasol and Tobias Harris.The N.B.A. playoffs start April 13.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Joe DrapeEAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — Lisa Kerney once earned her living hosting “SportsCenter” on ESPN, making her a nightly fixture in the vast American conversation between sports fans and their favorite athletes, teams and leagues. Her latest endeavor, she believes, is just as all-American.Every Saturday, Kerney slips into the anchor’s chair of a very different kind of television program: a sports betting show from a makeshift studio at the Meadowlands Racetrack. Instead of reporting just scores and news, Kerney now also rattles off N.F.L. point spreads and money-line odds as easily as a CNBC host talks stock prices and P/E ratios.She will be on the air again this Sunday, serving up information on the New England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams in the hours before Super Bowl LIII. The game will take its place in American gambling history because, for the first time, bettors will be allowed to wager on the N.F.L.’s championship game legally, not only in Nevada but also in seven other states.By next year, gambling may be legal in more than a dozen more states, a shift that is already moving betting on games into the mainstream of American culture and teaching fans to look at the sports contests they love as investment opportunities as well as entertainment.“Now fans are able to play the game within the game,” Kerney said. “It goes beyond the nuts and bolts of who’s going to win. It is a whole new way of experiencing sports.”Last May, when the Supreme Court struck down a federal law that prohibited expanded sports gambling, it created — almost overnight — a billion-dollar market that bookmakers, media companies, tech entrepreneurs, touts and quants have rushed in to dominate.On the high end, that has meant sports shows that incorporate into their coverage market-moving information like injury reports and their effect on bettors. But it also means digital subscription services that make a tsunami of sports data available, and app makers eager to help bettors slice it.On the retail front, the innovations have been more basic: how-to-bet sports camps, cable shows that explain the difference between a proposition and parlay bets, and Nevada-based tout services — which for decades have picked winners for a price — that have suddenly refashioned themselves into media companies.“If you have a way to make betting more fun, or to otherwise increase consumer investment in betting, the market needs you,” said Chris Grove, a managing director at Eilers & Krejcik Gaming, an independent research firm. “If you have a way to salve any of the pain points for consumers in the regulated sports betting — the learning curve, hassles with payments, ensuring that you’re getting the price — then the market absolutely needs you.”As sports betting and bills are being shepherded through legislatures in at least 15 other states, the early returns show there is plenty of opportunity in what is a familiar but nascent industry. In New Jersey, for example, sportsbooks at Meadowlands Racetrack and their online counterparts have handled more than $1.2 billion in wagers since the market was born in mid-June, despite having only three brick-and-mortar outlets in the early going and no availability for online wagering until August. If retail and online wagering were to become accessible in all 50 states, Eilers & Krejcik predicted, sports betting in America could become a $16 billion industry.Figures from regulators in Mississippi and Rhode Island also show an upward trend. New Jersey is on pace to surpass Nevada in sports wagering. And though market oversaturation could eventually slow or halt the industry’s rapid growth, that is not a pressing concern.Legalized sports betting has already changed the way some fans consume sports. This month, NBC Sports Washington Plus, a regional sports network, offered an alternate telecast of several Washington Wizards games, starting with one against the Milwaukee Bucks, that looked like a cross between CNBC and ESPNews. Unlike most N.B.A. telecasts, the productions included statistics, odds and point spreads alongside the live action. It was a preview of what game telecasts may look like in a mature sports betting landscape.In two years, the Las Vegas-based Vegas Stats & Information Network (VSiN) has grown from a start-up streaming service with 1.4 million visitors to 12.6 million visitors a month — across video and audio streams like Sirius XM and fuboTV — seeking “actionable information” delivered by a roster of Las Vegas bookmakers and professional gamblers, including the longtime CBS broadcaster Brent Musburger.The Super Bowl, though, has been an integral part of America’s sporting fabric and a highlight of the betting year since long before the Supreme Court’s ruling last year made it legal in more jurisdictions.Last year, for example, $159 million was bet on the Super Bowl legally in Nevada, a respectable take for any business but one that paled in comparison to the estimates of the amount — as high as $4.6 billion — wagered on the game illegally. This year, with eight states now offering legal sports betting, projections for wagering on Sunday’s Super Bowl LIII have risen to more than $325 million, according to PlayUSA, which monitors the legal sports market. That haul is expected to soar as more states bring betting on games out of the realm of corner-bar bookies and offshore operators and onto their tax rolls.At the same time, the popularity of fantasy sports and the growing amounts of easily accessible data and analytics have not merely hastened the acceptance of sports betting: They have transformed the nature of fandom.“This is a generational thing, and what we’ve seen is a perfect storm develop over the last 20 years, with a boom in fantasy sports, the interest in ‘moneyball’ and the democracy of information through technology,” said Chad Millman, the chief content officer at The Action Network, a subscriber-based media company. “It’s meant that fans have become more opportunistic about their fandom. They think about winning individually, not about rooting for a team.”The Action Network runs a website and an app offering data, research and betting tools, as well as general coverage of sports and the nuances of cashing in on them. It also produces a betting show — called “I’ll Take That Bet” — for ESPN+, the sports broadcaster’s new streaming platform.Millman would not say how many subscribers the Action Network has in its first year, but since April, he said, users of the company’s app have logged 13 million bets, and the circulation of the Action Network’s email newsletter has grown nearly tenfold, to 240,000.“In general, sports fans want to be smarter than their friends,” Millman said. “As sports betting becomes more and more part of the conversation, people are trying to figure out what the language of it is.”For now at least, there is a difference between a general sports audience and sports betting audience, a gap Kerney, the former “SportsCenter” anchor, is trying to navigate on her show, created by the bookmaker FanDuel, from the Meadowlands.“Most sports bettors will notice every second on or off the clock, every yard, every pitch, every shot, because any of these can ultimately affect their bets,” said Kevin Grigsby, the show’s executive producer. “So your story, programming, messaging needs narrative that caters to both cohorts.”Kerney and Grigsby’s bosses at FanDuel are making a big bet that they can close that gap quickly. FanDuel is owned by the European bookmakers Paddy Power, as is TVG, the cable network that is home to Kerney’s show. TVG reaches 40 million homes and gives horseplayers wall-to-wall coverage of races that they can bet on through a proprietary website or app. As sports betting expands, TVG is poised to also expand programming like Kerney’s show. FanDuel already takes bets on all sports.With a more than half-century head start on legalized betting, European bookmakers handled more than $13 billion in wagers in 2018, according to Eilers & Krejcik. That is a number Paddy Power and other bookmakers expect the United States market to surpass in as few as five to seven years.“The biggest advantage we have right now is that the leagues, the networks, or me and you don’t have to pretend anymore that there are not hundreds of millions of dollars bet every day on the games we follow,” Kerney said. “We are here to educate and inform but also to become an authority in this space. If we do our jobs, we believe people who follow us will make money.”You can follow Joe Drape on Twitter @joedrapeAdvertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. PlayoffsBy The Associated PressThe Boston Celtics have been at their best this season when they are forcing turnovers, spacing the floor and knocking down outside shots.They found out in their win at home against the Pacers that they were equipped to win an ugly, physical game as well.Irving and Marcus Morris each scored 20 points, and the Celtics rallied in the second half to beat the Indiana Pacers, 84-74, on Sunday in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.Jayson Tatum finished with 15 points for fourth-seeded Boston, and Al Horford added 10 points and 11 rebounds, and Gordon Hayward had 10 points. It was the first playoff game since 2017 for Irving and Hayward after each missed last year’s postseason with injuries.“I just try to be aggressive on the ball, be in the right spots,” Irving said. “I just really want to be aggressive and really be the head of the snake.”Game 2 is Wednesday night in Boston.The fifth-seeded Pacers led by 11 points in the first half but had just 8 in the third quarter. The Celtics capitalized and led by as many as 22 in the fourth. Indiana finished with a season-worst 29 points in the second half.Cory Joseph had 14 points for the Pacers, and Bojan Bogdanovic was their lone starter in double figures with 12 points.Both teams shot worse than 40 percent from the field. Boston hit just 36 percent (28 of 77) and had 20 turnovers. Indiana connected on 33 percent of its shots (28 of 84) and turned the ball over 13 times.The Celtics’ 84 points were their fewest of the season; it was the first time Boston scored fewer than 100 points and won.“We held them to 84 points,” Indiana’s Wesley Matthews said. “We just didn’t score enough.”BUCKS 121, PISTONS 86 Giannis Antetokounmpo had 24 points and 17 rebounds in just 24 minutes, and top-seeded Milwaukee routed eighth-seeded Detroit in their East opener.Antetokounmpo ran and dunked all over the visiting Pistons, who caught him only when center Andre Drummond shoved him to the ground late in the third quarter after Antetokounmpo grabbed an offensive rebound with Detroit trailing by 41 points.Drummond was given a flagrant 2 foul and ejected. He threw a kiss to the Fiserv Forum crowd as he was escorted off the court.Antetokounmpo struggled at the free-throw line, making only five of 12 attempts, but was 9 for 17 from the field and 1 of 5 from 3-point range.Luke Kennard paced the Pistons with 21 points off the bench, and Drummond had 12 points and 12 rebounds. Detroit played without forward Blake Griffin, who has a left knee injury.TRAIL BLAZERS 104, THUNDER 99 Damian Lillard scored 30 points and third-seeded Portland opened its Western Conference series against sixth-seeded Oklahoma City Thunder with a win at home.Enes Kanter added 20 points and a career playoff-high 18 rebounds for the Blazers, who are making their sixth straight postseason appearance but had lost eight games in a row over the previous two postseasons. C J McCollum added 24 points.Russell Westbrook had 24 points, 10 assists and 10 rebounds for his ninth career postseason triple-double. Paul George, who was a game-time decision because of a sore shoulder, added 26 points and 10 rebounds after a slow start.Portland led by as many as 19 points in the first half, but the Thunder pulled to 80-77 early in the fourth quarter. Oklahoma City could not get closer, and Lillard hit a 30-footer to extend the Blazers’ lead to 89-81 with 6 minutes 38 seconds left.Westbrook appeared to hurt his right knee or ankle and grimaced while trying to walk it off. Trainers attended to him on the bench at the next timeout but he returned and his layup closed the gap to 91-87 with just under four minutes left.ROCKETS 122, JAZZ 90 James Harden had 29 points and 10 assists to help host Houston rout Utah on Sunday night in Game 1 of their Western Conference series.The fourth-seeded Rockets had a double-digit lead for most of the game, but the fifth-seeded Jazz pulled to 5 behind midway through the third quarter before Houston used a big run to pull away. Rudy Gobert had 22 points and 12 rebounds for the Jazz.It is the second consecutive year these teams have met in the postseason; Houston eliminated Utah in five games in the second round last season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAt the end of a dizzying frenzy of trades in the N.B.A., featuring 24 deals in one week, Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans stayed put — for now.Yet there was plenty of action to make up for the lack of a Davis trade, with two of the four title hopefuls in the Eastern Conference making significant acquisitions before Thursday afternoon’s trade deadline, intensifying the race at the top of the East after Philadelphia’s big trade earlier this week.In the most significant deadline-day deals, Toronto acquired the former All-Star center Marc Gasol from Memphis, while Milwaukee imported the sharpshooting forward Nikola Mirotic from New Orleans as part of a three-team deal that also involved Detroit.Those moves capped a wild seven-day stretch that began with the Knicks’ blockbuster trade of Kristaps Porzingis to Dallas and also included the 76ers’ acquisition of Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers. Philadelphia’s big swing to land Harris, who joined a starting lineup that already featured Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Jimmy Butler and JJ Redick, seemingly forced the Raptors and Bucks, who entered Thursday as the East’s second- and first-place teams, to make their own moves.Milwaukee, Toronto and Philadelphia, along with the Boston Celtics, are jockeying to become the first LeBron James-less team to represent the East in the N.B.A. Finals since 2010.The Sixers, at fifth in the conference standings, didn’t stop at their Harris trade, though. Shortly before the deadline, they made a surprising deal with the Orlando Magic to send the wayward guard Markelle Fultz — whom they selected with the No. 1 overall pick in the 2017 draft — for the small forward Jonathon Simmons and two future draft picks (one in the first round, one in the second).The Celtics, who entered Thursday in third, came away from trade season simply relieved that Davis had not been traded to the Los Angeles Lakers. After a nervy two weeks, during which the Celtics could merely watch because of an obscure league rule, they will now get an opportunity to make a run at Davis in the off-season — although Davis is said to remain adamantly against signing a long-term contract with the Celtics should they trade for him.The Celtics were ineligible to make in-season trade offers for Davis with Kyrie Irving still on their roster, since both Davis and Irving are currently playing under maximum rookie-scale contract extensions; league rules allow teams to field only one such player.The Lakers, however, were unable to persuade the Pelicans to surrender Davis during the exclusive negotiating window they had to pursue him in the wake of Davis’s Jan. 28 request to be traded. The front offices of Los Angeles and New Orleans had no discussions about Davis on deadline day, according to two people familiar with the talks, after negotiations broke down Tuesday over what the Lakers deemed to be exorbitant demands from New Orleans.Late Thursday, Pelicans General Manager Dell Demps confirmed that Davis would continue playing for the team rather than be held out to guard against serious injury in advance of the trade sweepstakes that will likely emerge closer to the draft. Davis had not played since Jan. 18 because of a finger injury followed by the team not wanting to risk an injury. Demps confirmed he would be back on the court soon.“Ultimately, Anthony made it clear to us he wants to play and he gives our team the best opportunity to win games,” Demps said in a statement.The Lakers on Thursday were left trying to recover from the instability wrought by their pursuit of Davis as they seek to make the playoffs in James’s first season in Los Angeles. They entered Thursday’s play at 27-27, good for just 10th place in the West, after falling to a humiliating 42-point defeat in Indiana on Tuesday night. The one-sided loss, against the Victor Oladipo-less Pacers, left little doubt that the mounting trade speculation surrounding the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma was taking a toll on the Lakers.When the Lakers couldn’t acquire Davis on Thursday, they did trade the Croatian center Ivica Zubac — who was among the promising young players mentioned as potential parts of a trade for Davis — along with Michael Beasley to the Los Angeles Clippers in a deal for forward Mike Muscala. The move opened a roster spot for the Lakers that will allow them to seriously consider signing the former All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony, but Los Angeles will have plenty of other options on the free-agent market as various veterans become available following the deadline.As the Davis talk cooled on Thursday, much of the focus leading into the deadline centered on the Grizzlies, who wound up trading Gasol but keeping their point guard Mike Conley, who had drawn serious trade interest from the Utah Jazz and Detroit Pistons.Conley, 31, has two seasons, with a combined salary of $66 million, left on his contract after this one, which convinced the Grizzlies that trading him closer to the draft in June might yield a better offer. Gasol, though, can become a free agent at season’s end, so Memphis had to trade him now or risk losing one of the game’s best two-way players without compensation this summer.Charlotte and Memphis engaged in serious trade talks regarding Gasol earlier this week, which prompted the Spaniard, who has only played for the Grizzlies — and who played his high school ball in Memphis after the Grizzlies imported his brother Pau Gasol from Spain — to clean out his locker.But Toronto, perhaps motivated by what the Sixers did and by the Bucks’ move for Mirotic, packaged Jonas Valanciunas, Delon Wright, C.J. Miles and a second-round draft pick in 2024 to add Gasol to a team straining to convince the All-Star forward Kawhi Leonard to make a long-term commitment when he becomes a free agent July 1.The Bucks, like Toronto, managed to upgrade their roster without surrendering a first-round pick. By expanding a Thon Maker-for-Stanley Johnson trade it had hashed out earlier this week into a three-team deal, Milwaukee landed Mirotic for the primary cost of four second-round draft picks, which were sent to the Pelicans, who also came away with Johnson and the veteran Jason Smith.The Knicks did not make another deal, one week removed from the Porzingis blockbuster that got the trade madness started, but they did set two veterans free to find deals on the postseason market. The outspoken forward Enes Kanter was waived, as was the newly acquired Wes Matthews — with Matthews immediately coming to terms with Indiana to join the Pacers after he clears waivers.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Tech standout Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, announced Thursday he will forgo his last two seasons in Lubbock and declare for the 2019 NBA Draft.The 6-foot-5, 195-pound guard made the announcement during a press conference in Lubbock, Texas.Culver helped lead the Red Raiders to a share of the Big 12 regular-season title and was effective in this year's NCAA Tournament, where Texas Tech fell to Virginia 85-77 in overtime in the national championship game.On the season, Culver averaged 18.5 points, 6.4 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game while the Red Raiders set a school record with 31 wins.--Also announcing his plans to declare for the draft was 18-year-old Russian Nikita Mikhailovskii, according to a report by ESPN.The 6-foot-8, 180-pound wing is trying to become the first Russian player drafted since 2013 when Sergey Karasev was chosen with the 19th pick by the Cleveland Cavaliers.Mikhailovskii spent the past season playing in the mostly Russian VTB United League and FIBA Europe Cup, averaging 7.8 points in 16.8 minutes while shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range in 45 games.--The Memphis Grizzlies hired two former general managers to their front office, adding Rich Cho as vice president of strategy and Glen Grunwald as senior adviser.Cho is a former GM of the Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers, and Grunwald was GM of the New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors.The Grizzlies demoted former GM Chris Wallace to a scouting role in a flurry of moves last week, including the firing of head coach J.B. Bickerstaff and the promotion of Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations.--Los Angeles Clippers assistant general manager Trent Redden reportedly is close to interviewing for a senior front-office role with the New Orleans Pelicans.The Clippers gave the Pelicans permission to discuss the position with Redden, ESPN reported, citing league sources.David Griffin, the Pelicans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, worked closely with Redden when they with the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 2016 NBA championship season. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski noted that Griffin is expected to be "aggressive" in pursuing Redden.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — The Los Angeles Lakers and head coach Luke Walton have agreed to part ways after the team posted a disappointing 37-45 record and failed to end a playoff drought stretching back to 2013.Walton spent three seasons at the helm of a team that struggled to find the right pieces to complement 15-time All-Star LeBron James in his first season in Los Angeles. "We would like to thank Luke for his dedicated service over the last three years," Lakers general manager Rob Pelinka said in a press release issued on Friday. "We wish Luke and his family the best of luck moving forward." Walton said he was grateful to team owner Jeanie Buss for the chance to coach the team, where he won two championships as a player. "I want to thank Jeanie Buss and the Buss family for giving me the opportunity to coach the Lakers," he said."This franchise and the city will always be special to me and my family."Former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue is seen as an early frontrunner for the job, according to ESPN. Lue, who won two championships with the Lakers as a player, coached James to a championship with the Cavaliers in 2016.(This story corrects number of seasons Walton was Lakers coach in para 2)  (Reporting by Rory Carroll; Editing by Ken Ferris)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. will formally review the Cleveland Cavaliers’ recent signing and near-immediate release of the restricted free agent Patrick McCaw for possible salary cap circumvention, according to a person with knowledge of the league’s stance.The investigation was requested by the Golden State Warriors, who had held McCaw’s rights, according to the person, who was not authorized to discuss the situation publicly.In such cases, officials from the Cavaliers and the Warriors, as well as McCaw’s representatives, are typically interviewed before the league office rules whether Cleveland will face punishment.Signing a player to a nonguaranteed offer sheet is technically not against league rules, nor is waiving him shortly thereafter. But because McCaw lasted only a week in Cleveland before the Cavaliers released him, some around the league have suggested that the move was designed more to help McCaw extricate himself from the Warriors than because of any true interest in the player on Cleveland’s part.The Cavaliers, though, have expressed interest in re-signing McCaw to a cheaper contract if he clears waivers, according to reports.Teams and players are forbidden from making “unauthorized agreements” based on deals that are “expressed or implied, oral or written” or include “promises, undertakings, representations, commitments, inducements, assurances of intent, or understandings of any kind” with respect to a player contract. N.B.A. rules allow for a wide array of penalties in circumvention matters, which at the most extreme can include fines as high as $3 million to $6 million or the loss of draft picks.A contract impasse with the Warriors kept McCaw on the sidelines this season until Dec. 28, when he signed a two-year, $6 million contract with the Cavaliers that was not guaranteed.The Warriors declined to match the offer because retaining McCaw beyond Monday’s contract guarantee date would have resulted in a luxury-tax hit of roughly $11 million. The Cavaliers, though, played McCaw in only three games before releasing him Sunday — right before the league’s annual deadline that would have made McCaw’s $3 million salary guaranteed.The short stint with the Cavaliers netted McCaw, 23, just $323,529. But it sets him up to become an unrestricted free agent if he clears waivers Wednesday at 5 p.m., which Golden State has apparently argued was Cleveland’s intention all along.The Warriors and the Cavaliers declined to comment Tuesday. McCaw’s agent, Bill Duffy, also declined to comment.McCaw was a member of Golden State’s past two championship teams but missed the entire 2017 playoffs after a nasty fall in a late March game at Sacramento, which inflicted a serious bone bruise on his back.Selected No. 38 over all out of Nevada-Las Vegas in the 2016 draft, McCaw turned down a two-year, $5.2 million offer from the Warriors before this season began in which the second season was not guaranteed.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. It came after Boston had rallied from a 0-3 deficit to defeat the Yankees to claim the best of seven American League championship.-Sailing: 2013 Oracle Team USA. The defending champions retain the America's Cup by winning seven consecutive races against New Zealand in San Francisco Bay after trailing eight races to one and facing elimination with one more loss. -Cricket: 2001 India. India were down and out as they were asked to follow on by Australian captain Steve Waugh in the second test in Kolkata in 2001. With the tourists holding a 274-run lead and a 1-0 advantage in the series, Waugh's decision appeared to be vindicated when India slumped to 3-115 in their second innings.However, a remarkable 281 by VVS Laxman and 180 by Rahul Dravid steered India to an exhilerating 171-run victory.India went on to triumph 2-1 in the series.-Soccer: 2012 Manchester City: Manchester City appeared to be suffering a dramatic collapse when they trailed Queens Park Rangers 2-1 on the final day of the season. But two stoppage-time goals just before the final whistle completed a 3–2 win over QPR and secured City the English top-flight title for the first time in 44 years. It was the first time the Premier League title was decided on goal difference. City's game-winning goal against QPR came 15 seconds after their cross-town rivals Manchester United had thought, albeit very briefly, that they had won the league title after defeating Sunderland 1–0.-Basketball: 2016 Cleveland Cavaliers: LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers end 52 years of Cleveland sports agony when they defeat the Golden State Warriors 93-89 in Game Seven of the NBA Finals. Cleveland major sports teams had not won a championship since Jim Brown led the Cleveland Browns to the National Football League title in 1964.-Soccer: 2005 Liverpool. Trailing by three goals at halftime against favourites AC Milan in the Champions League final, Liverpool scored three goals in a dramatic six-minute spell to draw level. They then went on to win their fifth European Cup by defeating the Italians 3-2 on penalties.-Cricket: 1981 England. England were 1-0 down in the Ashes series against Australia after two tests. With odds of 500-1 against England midway through their second innings at Headingley, Ian Botham struck 149 not out and Bob Willis took eight for 43 to pull off the unlikeliest of victories. England went on to win the series, dubbed Botham's Ashes, 3-1.-Soccer: 1968 Manchester United. A decade after Manchester United lost eight players in the 1958 Munich air disaster on the way home from a European Cup quarter-final victory against Red Star Belgrade, they became the first English club to win the European Cup, beating Benfica 4–1 in the final.  (Compiled by Pritha Sarkar and Gene Cherry, editing by Pritha Sarkar)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. It came after Boston had rallied from a 0-3 deficit to defeat the Yankees to claim the best of seven American League championship.-Sailing: 2013 Oracle Team USA. The defending champions retain the America's Cup by winning seven consecutive races against New Zealand in San Francisco Bay after trailing eight races to one and facing elimination with one more loss. -Cricket: 2001 India. India were down and out as they were asked to follow on by Australian captain Steve Waugh in the second test in Kolkata in 2001. With the tourists holding a 274-run lead and a 1-0 advantage in the series, Waugh's decision appeared to be vindicated when India slumped to 3-115 in their second innings.However, a remarkable 281 by VVS Laxman and 180 by Rahul Dravid steered India to an exhilerating 171-run victory.India went on to triumph 2-1 in the series.-Soccer: 2012 Manchester City: Manchester City appeared to be suffering a dramatic collapse when they trailed Queens Park Rangers 2-1 on the final day of the season. But two stoppage-time goals just before the final whistle completed a 3–2 win over QPR and secured City the English top-flight title for the first time in 44 years. It was the first time the Premier League title was decided on goal difference. City's game-winning goal against QPR came 15 seconds after their cross-town rivals Manchester United had thought, albeit very briefly, that they had won the league title after defeating Sunderland 1–0.-Basketball: 2016 Cleveland Cavaliers: LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers end 52 years of Cleveland sports agony when they defeat the Golden State Warriors 93-89 in Game Seven of the NBA Finals. Cleveland major sports teams had not won a championship since Jim Brown led the Cleveland Browns to the National Football League title in 1964.-Soccer: 2005 Liverpool. Trailing by three goals at halftime against favourites AC Milan in the Champions League final, Liverpool scored three goals in a dramatic six-minute spell to draw level. They then went on to win their fifth European Cup by defeating the Italians 3-2 on penalties.-Cricket: 1981 England. England were 1-0 down in the Ashes series against Australia after two tests. With odds of 500-1 against England midway through their second innings at Headingley, Ian Botham struck 149 not out and Bob Willis took eight for 43 to pull off the unlikeliest of victories. England went on to win the series, dubbed Botham's Ashes, 3-1.-Soccer: 1968 Manchester United. A decade after Manchester United lost eight players in the 1958 Munich air disaster on the way home from a European Cup quarter-final victory against Red Star Belgrade, they became the first English club to win the European Cup, beating Benfica 4–1 in the final.  (Compiled by Pritha Sarkar and Gene Cherry, editing by Pritha Sarkar)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe Cleveland Cavaliers did not commit any rules violations with their recent signing and subsequent release of the restricted free agent Patrick McCaw, the N.B.A. announced Monday.The league opened an investigation last week at the behest of the Golden State Warriors, who had held McCaw’s rights, and said it found no evidence of wrongdoing after interviews with officials from both teams and McCaw’s representation. Penalties in such cases, at their most extreme, can include fines as high as $6 million or the loss of draft picks.“Based on the specific facts and circumstances of this matter, the N.B.A. found that there was no violation of the league’s collective bargaining agreement, including the anti-circumvention rules,” the league said in a statement.McCaw cleared waivers last week after Cleveland released him and signed a contract for the rest of the season with the Toronto Raptors.A contract impasse with the Warriors had kept McCaw on the sidelines this season until Dec. 28, when he signed a two-year, $6 million offer sheet from Cleveland that was fully unguaranteed. The Warriors did not match the offer, and McCaw joined the Cavaliers. He played sparingly in three games before they waived him Jan. 7 — right before the league’s annual deadline that would have made his $3 million salary for this season guaranteed.Signing a player to a nonguaranteed offer sheet is not against league rules, nor is waiving him shortly thereafter. But because McCaw lasted only a week in Cleveland before the Cavaliers released him, some around the league had suggested that the signing was not grounded in true interest on Cleveland’s part but was rather designed purely to help McCaw extricate himself from the Warriors and become an unrestricted free agent.The league could elect in future labor negotiations with the N.B.A. Players Association to seek changes to the current rules that allowed the Cavaliers’ offer to be fully unguaranteed.After clearing waivers and re-entering free agency, this time with the freedom to sign with any team without Golden State having the opportunity to match the offer, McCaw signed a one-year minimum contract with the Raptors that will pay him $777,665 for the rest of the season. McCaw, a 23-year-old guard, earned just $323,529 for his short stint with the Cavaliers.The Cavaliers and Warriors declined to comment Monday. McCaw’s agent, Bill Duffy, also declined to comment.The Warriors chose not to match Cleveland’s original offer sheet because retaining McCaw beyond last Monday’s contract guarantee date would have resulted in a luxury-tax hit of $11.3 million.McCaw was a member of Golden State’s past two championship teams but missed most of the 2018 playoffs after he sustained a serious bone bruise in his back from a nasty fall in a late March game at Sacramento. Selected No. 38 over all out of Nevada-Las Vegas in the 2016 draft, McCaw turned down a two-year, $5.2 million offer from the Warriors before this season began in which the second season was not guaranteed.He has not played in either of Toronto’s two games since he signed Jan. 10.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Los Angeles Lakers and coach Luke Walton mutually parted ways on Friday, general manager Rob Pelinka announced in a statement.Walton's status had been tenuous, even before Magic Johnson resigned as president of basketball operations on Tuesday. Lakers owner Jeanie Buss was reportedly ready to OK a departure after previously being fully supportive of Walton."We would like to thank Luke for his dedicated service over the last three years," Pelinka said in a statement. "We wish Luke and his family the best of luck moving forward."Walton compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three seasons."I want to thank Jeanie Buss and the Buss family for giving me the opportunity to coach the Lakers," Walton said in a statement. "This franchise and the city will always be special to me and my family."The Lakers went 37-45 this season in a disappointing first campaign of the LeBron James era.Los Angeles was 20-14 when James suffered a groin injury during a Christmas Day win over the Golden State Warriors and the team's fortunes plummeted from there.Walton may not be unemployed for a long period as the Sacramento Kings are reportedly interested in interviewing him for their opening.The Kings went 39-43 this season and fired coach Dave Joerger. They have an impressive young group led by point guard De'Aaron Fox, shooting guard Buddy Hield and power forward Marvin Bagley III.Among the candidates for the Lakers' post is former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and Philadelphia 76ers assistant coach Monty Williams.Lue coached James for parts of three seasons in Cleveland -- including the franchise's 2016 NBA Finals title -- while Williams coached the New Orleans Pelicans for five seasons.Williams also is reported a candidate for the Sacramento job.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLarry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed Thursday to part ways."We have great respect and appreciation for Larry and the job that he did as the head coach of the Cavaliers for nearly the entire 2018-19 campaign," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "He brought professionalism, class and steady leadership both this past season and prior four years."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role. Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers. All of us in Cleveland wish Larry nothing but the best going forward."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first, before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.Drew, 61, previously was head coach of the Atlanta Hawks (2010-13) and Milwaukee Bucks (2013-14), and joined the Cavaliers initially as an assistant coach in 2014, then as the associate head coach. While there, the Cavaliers won their first NBA title during the 2015-16 season. He has been an assistant coach in the NBA for 23 seasons.Drew went 8-1 as fill-in coach in the 2017-18 season while Lue was on a medical leave to deal with anxiety issues."I want to thank Dan Gilbert, Koby Altman, the entire organization, and especially our fans, for what has been a very special and rewarding time here in Cleveland. Koby and I had a good discussion following the season and have both decided that the best decision for each of us was that I would not return to coach the team," said Drew, who was an NBA point guard from 1980-91, playing for the Detroit Pistons, Kansas City/Sacramento Kings, Los Angeles Clippers and Lakers."I am very proud of what we accomplished over the last several years together and will always cherish our Championship. I also want to commend our players this season for the bond that they established, the way they approached their jobs and the hard work and growth they had every day. I am very proud of them and wish them the best as they continue to develop for the future."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe NBA rescinded technical fouls assessed to Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant and Los Angeles Clippers forward JaMychal Green on Friday after reviewing a call made during Thursday night's game.Durant and Green were exchanging words during the third quarter when the double-technical was called, stunning both players.The decision to rescind was announced from the league's @NBAOfficial account on Twitter.The change was good for Durant, as he already received two technicals earlier in the series. An accumulation of seven technicals during the postseason carries an automatic one-game suspension. He had lobbied for the technicals to be rescinded after Thursday's 132-105 victory.--Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, who missed Game 3 of his team's first-round playoff series against the Brooklyn Nets on Thursday night because of left knee soreness, is listed as doubtful for Game 4 on Saturday. The NBA announced his status in its injury report.Embiid's status has digressed from the first three games when he was listed as questionable. He continues to deal with left knee tendinitis, a problem throughout the regular season, when he missed 14 of the Sixers' 24 games after the All-Star break.Despite Embiid's absence in Game 3, the visiting 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory over the host Nets to take a 2-1 lead. Greg Monroe started in Embiid's place and collected nine points on 4-for-13 shooting and grabbed 13 rebounds. Game 4 of the best-of-seven will also be played in Brooklyn before the series shifts to Philadelphia on Tuesday.--The status of Detroit Pistons forward Blake Griffin remains uncertain entering Saturday's Game 3 of the team's Eastern Conference first-round series against the Milwaukee Bucks.Griffin missed the first two games with a left knee injury, and coach Dwane Casey didn't shed any light on whether the six-time All-Star will return on Saturday for the eighth-seeded Pistons, who lost the first two games of the series in Milwaukee by an average of 28 points."Day-to-day. I'm not talking about Blake," Casey told reporters after Friday's practice. "Day-to-day. Same old words. Just like I am on coaching -- day-to-day."--Former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue was scheduled to interview with the Los Angeles Lakers for their head coaching vacancy, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.The Lakers fired coach Luke Walton last week after three seasons and a 98-148 record.Lue, who previously served as an assistant coach for the Boston Celtics, L.A. Clippers and Cavaliers, became head coach in Cleveland during the 2015-16 season after David Blatt was fired.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAs the crowd filed out of the Barclays Center in May 2015, there was reason for hope. Though the Nets had just been eliminated by the Atlanta Hawks in the first round of the playoffs, they had overachieved and shown some promise for the future. And Phil Jackson had become the Knicks president the year before, bringing his triangle offense and a coaching résumé that included 11 N.B.A. titles to Manhattan.Little did New York fans know that it would be four dreadful years before playoff basketball would return to the city. It finally will on Thursday night, when the Nets host the Philadelphia 76ers in a series tied at one all.While there has been no playoff basketball in the city in the interim, much has happened in those four years. And for Knicks and Nets fans, not much of it has been good.May 1, 2015 The eighth-seeded Nets fall to the top-seeded Hawks, 111-87. But they take two games in the series, raising optimism. “We were able to secure a playoff spot,” Coach Lionel Hollins says. “Some people will say, ‘Hey, we didn’t deserve it.’ That’s their problem.”June 25 After putting up a 17-65 record, the worst in franchise history and the league’s second worst in 2015, the Knicks have bad luck in the draft lottery, ending up at the No. 4 spot. Nevertheless, their selection, Kristaps Porzingis of Latvia, will pay off, quickly becoming a star and a fan favorite.Oct. 3 Knicks Coach Derek Fisher gets into a physical altercation after being confronted by Matt Barnes of the Memphis Grizzlies at the home of Barnes’s estranged wife. Barnes is suspended for two games.Dec. 30 Cleanthony Early of the Knicks is shot in the knee by masked men and robbed of gold teeth caps after a visit to a strip club.Jan. 10, 2016 The Nets fire Coach Hollins and demote General Manager Billy King with the team at 10-27. “Frankly speaking, I deserve a championship now much more than six years ago,”  owner Mikhail D. Prokhorov says.Feb. 8 The Knicks, 23-31, fire Fisher. “There’s not a whole lot to say,” Jackson says in his first remarks to reporters since the start of training camp.April 13 The Nets finish the season 21-61, the league’s third worst record. But there will be little help on draft day: They traded their top pick to the Celtics in 2014 for a 37-year-old Kevin Garnett and a 36-year-old Paul Pierce, both of whom are gone at this point.The Knicks finish 32-50. That’s a 15-game improvement, but Jackson says, “We’re disappointed about our season.”April 17 The Nets hire Kenny Atkinson, a Hawks assistant, as head coach. “Together, we can do great things,” Prokhorov says.June 2 The Knicks hire Jeff Hornacek as coach, bypassing the interim coach, Kurt Rambis.June 22 The Knicks trade for Derrick Rose, who proclaims them a “superteam.” After a year he will leave for the Cleveland Cavaliers.July 7 The Nets sign Jeremy Lin, perhaps hoping to recapture the Linsanity that took over the Knicks in 2012.July 8 The Knicks sign Joakim Noah for four years and $72 million. This will not work out. Noah will be suspended for 20 games for a drug violation, be sent to the developmental league and get into a shouting match with Hornacek. The Knicks wind up releasing him in 2018 and paying him anyway.Feb. 8, 2017 The Knicks legend Charles Oakley is ejected from Madison Square Garden during a game. The crowd sides with the former player, chanting “Oakley, Oakley.” The Knicks say he behaved abusively, and the owner, James L. Dolan, says that Oakley “may have a problem with alcohol.” Oakley sues, claiming defamation and battery.March 12 Carmelo Anthony gets his 10,000th point as a Knick, becoming the third player to reach that mark with two teams.April 12 The Nets finish 20-62, the worst record in the league. Once again a potentially high draft pick is gone, as part of the Garnett deal. The Knicks are 31-51.June 22 The Nets trade their longtime star Brook Lopez to the Los Angeles Lakers for D’Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov. Russell will become a key player in the team’s resurgence.June 28 The Knicks and Phil Jackson agree to part ways after three years. The Knicks never fully embraced his triangle offense, and Jackson remained wary of the 3-point shot as it became increasingly important in the league. He also could never seem to get rid of Anthony, the team’s aging star who refused to waive a no-trade clause. Jackson also feuded with the player expected to be the team’s future, Porzingis.Sept. 25 A trade is finally worked out for Anthony, who is sent to the Oklahoma City Thunder for Enes Kanter. He gave the Knicks seven seasons of 20-points-a-game play. Jackson was willing “to trade me for a bag of chips,” Anthony says. He also notes that under new management, “They went from asking for peanuts to asking for steak.”Oct. 18 Lin ruptures a knee tendon  in the Nets’ opening game and misses the entire season.Feb. 6, 2018 Porzingis tears the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee and is out for the rest of this season and the next one.April 11 The Nets finish 28-54. Incredibly, for a third straight year they do not have their top pick because of that Garnett deal. (Garnett is by now 41 and has been out of the league two years.) The lost picks turned into Jaylen Brown, a big part of the contending Celtics; Markelle Fultz, a No. 1 overall choice; and Collin Sexton, who averaged 17 points as a rookie with the Cleveland Cavaliers.The Knicks wind up 29-53 and fire Hornacek the next day. David Fizdale will be the new coach.Asked how the Knicks can improve, the superfan Spike Lee can only turn to prayer: “On bended knee I pray above to da basketball gods to deliver us back to da glory years of da Orange and Blue. Amen,” he writes in The New York Times.June 20 The Nets make a trade to get Dwight Howard from the Hornets, but Howard buys his way out of his contract and never plays for them.July 13 The Nets trade Lin to the Hawks, curing the city’s second, significantly milder case of Linsanity.Jan. 31, 2019 The Knicks  send their most popular player, Porzingis, who is still recovering from the torn A.C.L., to the Dallas Mavericks in a blockbuster trade. Two months later it will be revealed that he is under investigation by the New York Police Department after being accused of sexual assault.The Knicks get Dennis Smith Jr. and some expiring contracts, which should open up salary cap space so they can sign some marquee free agents. Assuming that marquee free agents would want to play for the Knicks.March 12 Knicks fans hoping for a change in ownership are disappointed when Dolan proclaims that he will not sell the team, even for $6 billion. Two days before that, he was filmed threatening a fan with banishment from the Garden after the fan had urged him to sell the team.April 10 The Knicks have sunk to the bottom of the league again, finishing 17-65 and tying the franchise-worst mark. The Nets start the season 8-18, but then unexpectedly turn things around behind Russell, Spencer Dinwiddie (picked up from the developmental league in 2016) and Jarrett Allen (a No. 22 pick in 2017). They finish 42-40. Playoff basketball returns to New York. For now.An earlier version of this article misstated the Knicks’ record in the 2014-15 season. They were 17-65, not 17-63.Benjamin Hoffman contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLeBron James, sidelined since Dec. 25 with a groin strain, will remain out until at least next week, the Los Angeles Lakers announced Wednesday. The team said in a statement that James did not travel with the Lakers on their current road trip for games against the Oklahoma City Thunder on Thursday and the Houston Rockets on Saturday.The Lakers have struggled without James — and without Rajon Rondo, their backup point guard, who was also injured in the Lakers’ road win over the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day. Entering Thursday, the Lakers had gone 4-7 without those two players and were tied with the Sacramento Kings for eighth place in the Western Conference standings.[On Pro Basketball: The Warriors Prepare to Add Another Star: DeMarcus Cousins]After their current trip, the Lakers will return home to play the Warriors on Monday — which, incidentally, is slated to be Game 2 of the Warriors’ well-publicized DeMarcus Cousins experiment as he returns from surgery on his Achilles’ tendon — but it is highly unlikely that James will be available. The Lakers said in their statement that James “has been cleared to return to practice commencing next week, and progress toward a return to game play thereafter.”James, 34, had been fairly indestructible thus far in his career. He appeared in all 82 regular-season games for the Cleveland Cavaliers last season. But while the Lakers initially listed James as “day to day” after he underwent a magnetic resonance imaging exam last month, the team has been handling him — and his eventual return — with caution.James was playing some of the best basketball of his career before he got hurt, averaging 27.3 points, 8.3 rebounds and 7.1 assists a game. A four-time N.B.A. most valuable player, he is in the first year of a four-year contract worth $154 million.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday. He compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.--The Lakers, meanwhile, received permission to discuss their opening for head coach with Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams, ESPN reported, citing league sources.The Lakers are focusing on Williams and former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue, and general manager Rob Pelinka plans to speak with each candidate in the near future, league sources told ESPN.After spending the previous two years in the San Antonio Spurs' front office following the death of his wife Ingrid in 2016, Williams got back into coaching as Brett Brown's top assistant with the 76ers.--The 76ers fined veteran center Amir Johnson an undisclosed amount for showing teammate Joel Embiid his cell phone on the bench late in a 111-102 loss to the Brooklyn Nets in Game 1 of their playoff series.TV cameras caught Johnson on the bench in the fourth quarter, when the 76ers were 16 points down and he was scrolling through his phone. After showing Embiid something on his phone, Johnson put it into the pocket of his warm-ups."I apologize for having my phone on the bench in today's game," Johnson said in a statement released hours after the game by the 76ers. "I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions. I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."--Milwaukee Bucks forward Nikola Mirotic is expected to return from a thumb injury to play in Game 1 of the first-round series against the Detroit Pistons on Sunday.Mirotic missed the final 11 games of the regular season after fracturing his left thumb during a March 19 game against the Los Angeles Lakers.Mirotic fully participated in Friday's practice and took part in Saturday's non-contact practice. He had his thumb taped during both workouts.--The Washington Wizards announced they will not make a qualifying offer to free agent forward Devin Robinson after he was apparently arrested late Friday."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend a qualifying offer to him for the 2019-20 season," it read.According to Washington Post reporter Candace Buckner, who covers the Wizards, Robinson was involved in an altercation with Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills at a nightclub.--Toronto Raptors forward OG Anunoby could be sidelined until the Eastern Conference finals, should the team make it that far, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.Anunoby underwent an emergency appendectomy on Thursday.The second-year player, who is a key reserve for the Raptors, scored 7.0 points per game this season with an average of 2.9 rebounds. He played in 67 games this season, starting six of them, a year after he started 62 games as a rookie from Indiana.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCLEVELAND — Kemba Walker scored 23 points and the Charlotte Hornets pulled away in the fourth quarter to keep their late-season playoff push going with a 124-97 win Tuesday night over the Cleveland Cavaliers, whose painful first season rebuilding without LeBron James is finally over.The Hornets (39-42) had to win to have any chance of beating out Detroit and Miami for the No. 8 spot in the Eastern Conference. Charlotte did its part and must now beat Orlando at home on Wednesday and hope the Pistons (39-42) lose in New York to clinch its first playoff berth in three years.Detroit rallied to beat Memphis 100-93, setting up a dramatic final day of the season.Jeremy Lamb added 23 points and Miles Bridges and Dwayne Bacon scored 18 apiece as the Hornets won their fourth straight.The Cavs dropped their 10th in a row to finish 19-63, the fourth-worst record in franchise history and just the fifth time they've failed to win at least 20.Cleveland again played without star forward Kevin Love, whose season was sabotaged early by a toe injury that required surgery and altered everything for the Cavs. Love's situation made things even tougher on the Cavs, who initially believed they could compete while recovering from the loss of James as a free agent for the second time.Now the focus turns to coach Larry Drew's future and next month's NBA draft lottery.Rookie Collin Sexton scored 18 points and had a season-high 10 assists for the Cavs. He also joined Larry Bird (1979-80) and Stephen Curry (2009-10) as the only rookies in league history to average at least 16 points while making over 40% of their 3-pointers and 80% of their free throws.If the Hornets get back to the postseason for the first time in three years, Walker will be the reason.The three-time All-Star, who is scheduled to become a free agent on July 1, is averaging 34.4 points in his last five games.TIP-INSHornets: F Michael Kidd-Gilchrist was not with the team for the second straight game because of personal reasons. ... Walker enters Wednesday's game — perhaps the final one of his career with Charlotte — as the franchise leader in points and made 3-pointers, field goals and free throws. He's second in assists behind Muggsy Bogues and third in games played behind Dell Curry and Bogues.Cavaliers: Love played 13 minutes on Sunday as a salute to close friend Channing Frye, who is retiring after 13 seasons. Love was limited to just 22 games this season because of the toe and other injuries. He'll consider playing this summer for Team USA. ... Frye was given a rousing ovation when he checked in and a video tribute from former teammates was shown. Dwyane Wade said, "I thought you already retired." Frye scored 10 in the fourth quarter. ... Sexton scored in double figures in his final 23 games. He's the first Cavs rookie to play all 82 games since Andre Miller in 1999-2000. ... G Matthew Dellavedova missed the final 17 games with a concussion sustained on March 6 at Brooklyn.UP NEXTHornets: Lost to the Magic, Wednesday's opponent, by 38 on Feb. 14.Cavaliers: Eagerly await the NBA draft lottery on May 12.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSpeaking to local media around midday Thursday, Memphis Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said he hadn't talked with team owner Robert Pera yet, but he could make one declaration: Head coach J.B. Bickerstaff would return for a second season. Two hours later, that decision had changed, and several other moves were made.The Grizzlies fired Bickerstaff and demoted Wallace to a scouting role.Memphis also named Jason Wexler as team president with "oversight of both business and basketball operations," the team said in a statement. The Grizzlies promoted Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations, with former VP John Hollinger reassigned to a senior advisory position."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a reenergized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."--Sacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said.Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs. The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final postseason spot in the West.--Larry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed to part ways."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.--Cardiologists have cleared Chicago Bulls forward Lauri Markkanen to resume full basketball activities, the team announced.Markkanen, 21, experienced extreme fatigue and an accelerated heart rate during a game in Toronto on March 26. A battery of tests conducted at Chicago's Rush University Medical Center and Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore determined that dehydration and nutrient deficiency caused his symptoms.The 7-footer missed the rest of the regular season, finishing his second campaign with averages of 18.7 points and 9.0 rebounds in 52 games.--The Phoenix Suns officially named James Jones as general manager, giving him control over all basketball operations for the team.The Suns also added Jeff Bower as senior vice president of basketball operations and retained Trevor Bukstein as assistant general manager. Both will report to Jones, the team announced in a statement.Jones, 38, who played 14 seasons in the league and won three NBA championships, had served as Phoenix's VP of basketball operations the past two seasons. He shared GM duties this past season with Bukstein.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAnd the Oscar goes to … the Knicks?Not quite. But the team — and its woeful state as one of the worst teams in the N.B.A. — did get a shout out during the Academy Awards on Sunday night.When Samuel L. Jackson came out with Brie Larson to present the Best Adapted Screenplay award at the Oscars, he had a short preamble, a personal message to Spike Lee, a nominee and a famously devoted Knicks fan through thick and thin.“First of all, Spike, so glad you’re sitting down,” Jackson began. “After 18 consecutive home losses, the Knicks won tonight. I repeat, the Knicks won tonight, defeated San Antonio, 130-118”Jackson’s stats were accurate. The 18-game home losing streak had set a franchise record.Jackson’s news flash drew a laugh from Lee, and also an exclamation. It was not audible on the broadcast, but just about every armchair lip reader believed he said, “We’re trying to tank.”While you might think that the end of a long losing streak would delight a superfan like Lee, there are those Knicks supporters out there who don’t especially want to win many — or any — more games.If the Knicks finish in the bottom three of the N.B.A., they will get the best possible chance, 14 percent, to land the top draft pick in June. A recent injury aside, that is still expected to be the Duke star Zion Williamson. A bottom three finish would also give the Knicks a 40 percent chance at a top three pick.As of Monday morning, the Knicks stand at 12-48, for the second worst record. Despite their win, they look likely to grab a bottom three spot, probably alongside the Phoenix Suns (11-50) and Cleveland Cavaliers (14-46). But the Chicago Bulls are looming, two games “better” than the Cavs.The league actually changed the draft lottery percentages this season in an effort to cut down on tanking, particularly after the 76ers went on a multiyear losing period of terrible play that got them several top picks. A year ago, the worst record offered a full 25 percent chance at No. 1, with the second and third worst teams getting 20 and 16 percent chances.Lee has been the Knicks’ consensus No. 1 fan for years, sitting courtside and not infrequently interacting with players on both teams. Perhaps most infamously, in 1994, he jawed with the Pacers’ Reggie Miller in a conference finals game. Miller went on to the lead the Pacers to victory, drawing a “Thanks a Lot Spike” headline from The New York Daily News.Jackson and Lee have a history as well, with Jackson appearing in “Do the Right Thing,” “School Daze,” “Jungle Fever” and “Mo Better Blues.” They are also both alumni of Morehouse College.In this age of smartphones, there’s a good chance that those at the Oscars who cared already knew the Knicks score, perhaps including Lee.That wasn’t the case in 1976, when Elliott Gould, presenting the award for best editing, alerted the audience that Indiana had won the men’s basketball national championship, 86-68. “I listened to the score before we went out to make the presentation,” he told Grantland. “Literally in the wings, there was a radio there.”By the way, along with his co-writers, Lee won on Sunday, his first competitive Oscar. There is no evidence that “The Ballad of Buster Scruggs” or the other nominees engaged in any tanking.An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of the actor who presented the Academy Award for best editing in 1976. He is Elliott Gould, not Eliott.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW ORLEANS — The Pelicans have reached an agreement in principle to make former Cleveland Cavaliers general manager David Griffin New Orleans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, three people familiar with the situation said Friday.The people spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because contract negotiations are ongoing and no announcement has been made.Griffin will take over for former Pelicans general manger Dell Demps, who was fired in the middle of his ninth season with the club — a few weeks after All-Star Anthony Davis' trade request in late January.Griffin's agreement to join New Orleans, which was first reported by ESPN, puts him at the center of the club's effort to find the best deal for Davis. Griffin also could decide the fate of Pelicans coach Alvin Gentry, who has two years left on his contract.The 45-year-old Griffin was the Cavaliers' GM from 2014 to 2017, during which LeBron James returned from Miami to Cleveland and the Cavs won an NBA title. The highlights of his tenure included a trade that brought star power forward Kevin Love to the Cavs. But Griffin's contract was not renewed after the 2016-17 season and James joined the Los Angele Lakers in free agency a year later. Griffin also worked in the Phoenix Suns' front office from 1993 until 2009, a stint that overlapped with Gentry's time as both a Suns assistant and head coach.Griffin was among six people interviewed by the Pelicans to replace Demps, including interim general manager Danny Ferry, Golden State assistant GM Larry Harris, Brooklyn Nets assistant GM Trajan Langon, Houston Rockets assistant GM Gersson Rosas and interim Washington president of basketball operations Tommy Sheppard.Now Griffin will attempt to transform a franchise that went 33-49 this season and has slightly better than a 25 percent chance of landing a top four pick in the NBA draft lottery on May 14.Trading Davis also could fetch a high draft choice, if Griffin chooses to go that route.Gentry has a regular-season record of 145-183 with one playoff appearance last season and one playoff series victory — a sweep of Portland before losing in five games to eventual champion Golden State.Although the Pelicans struggled this season, Gentry was commended by his players for his professionalism amid difficult circumstances."He's kind of been the guy who has let us grow," said Pelicans guard Jrue Holiday, who is coming off the best season of his 10-year NBA career. "I know he has for sure let me grow. He's given me responsibility ... and when he saw me succeed in it, he asked for more."Sometimes there's coaches that you kind of feel like they're holding you back as a player and kind of restrict you, but I feel like he kind of just lets you go and figure it out yourself," Holiday said earlier this week. "He's always been like a partner instead of like a dictator, and I feel like for professionals like ourselves and the guys in the locker room, we really respect that."Davis, who averaged 25.9 points, 12 rebounds and 2.4 blocks in 56 games, made his trade demand with 32 games left in the season and wound up missing 17 of those games, sometimes for rest and at other times was listed as out with back spasms, including for the final seven games.When he did play, it was rarely for much more than 20 minutes a game.The Pelicans will have a number of other pressing roster matters as well.Starting forward Julius Randle and starting point guard Elfrid Payton both will be free agents. Randle is coming off of the best season of his career — averaging 21.4 points and 8.7 rebounds. He credited the Pelicans with fostering his development and said he's open to coming back.Payton, who is from the New Orleans area, said playing in his hometown exceeded expectations and that he would like to be back. Payton missed much of the season with injuries, but also put together a historically significant string of five straight triple-doubles this spring.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressD’Angelo Russell flashed some postseason magic, playing like the All-Star leader the Nets needed with 26 points, and Caris LeVert scored 23, leading the visiting Nets to a 111-102 victory on Saturday over the Philadelphia 76ers in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.Jimmy Butler scored 36 points and saved the third-seeded Sixers, favored by many to at least reach the East semifinals, from losing by 25. Joel Embiid slogged his way through 24 minutes on a troubled left knee that cost him much of the final month of the regular season and managed 22 points and 15 rebounds. Ben Simmons came up small against Russell, his high school teammate, who scored 19 second-half points.Russell, LeVert and Spencer Dinwiddie gave the Sixers fits off the dribble and buried open looks from 3-point range, and a team that got hot late and just made the playoffs suddenly has the upper hand on the road over a 51-win team stocked with stars.“I think earlier in the season, especially when we were struggling, we’d lose games like that,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said.With Philadelphia behind by 16 late in the fourth quarter, Amir Johnson was caught by television cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone. Johnson, who was inactive for the game, showed Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid the device into a pocket of his warm-up pants.“I just looked down because he said his daughter was extremely sick and he was checking on her,” Embiid said.Johnson issued an apology after the game, and the Sixers fined him an unspecified amount. It was a fitting episode in a game that the Sixers seemed to have phoned in.Russell hit a string of jumpers in the third quarter, never letting the Sixers seriously chip away at the lead. LeVert’s third 3-pointer in the fourth made it a 16-point game, and there was no looking back for one of the biggest wins since the sixth-seeded Nets moved to Brooklyn.Dinwiddie and DeMarre Carroll made consecutive 3-pointers during a 12-0 first-half run. LeVert hit two straight 3s for a 14-point lead, and the Sixers were soundly booed off the court.“We all got to do a better job,” Embiid said. “Us. The fans. We have to bring the fun.”WARRIORS 121, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 38 points and made eight 3-pointers, reaching the highest total in postseason history, and top-seeded Golden State began its quest for a three-peat by winning at home against Los Angeles on a night when tempers flared.Kevin Durant and Patrick Beverley were ejected with 4 minutes 41 seconds to go, 19 seconds after they received double technicals when Durant stripped Beverley and the Clippers guard fell into the scorer’s table.They both became enraged again, and the official Ed Malloy immediately sent them both to the locker room. Durant high-fived fans as he left.Curry was 8 for 12 from beyond the arc, passing Ray Allen (385) for career postseason 3-pointers with 386.MAGIC 104, RAPTORS 101 D. J. Augustin scored 25 points, including the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 3.5 seconds left, and seventh-seeded Orlando won at second-seeded Toronto in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round series.Kawhi Leonard, who led the Raptors with 25 points, got a final shot but missed the rim with his 3-point attempt from the top. The Raptors are now 2-14 in playoff series openers.WALTON TO COACH KINGS One day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers, Luke Walton reached an agreement on a four-year deal to coach the Sacramento Kings, according to a person familiar with the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Lakers’ president this week in part because he did not want to go through with firing Walton, as had been expected around the N.B.A. for weeks. On Friday, Walton and the Lakers mutually agreed to part ways with two seasons left on his contract — with Walton knowing that the Kings, after firing Coach Dave Joerger on Thursday, were eager to hire him.The Lakers have the former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and the Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams at their top of their list to succeed Walton. Lue coached the Lakers’ LeBron James for two and a half seasons in Cleveland.(MARC STEIN)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — At the end of a disastrous season in which the Los Angeles Lakers failed to make the playoffs, despite having added LeBron James via free agency, Magic Johnson made the stunning announcement on Tuesday that he was stepping down as the team’s president of basketball operations.Johnson delivered the news at an impromptu news conference before the Lakers’ regular-season finale, against the Portland Trail Blazers, and he said he had not yet informed Jeanie Buss, the team’s controlling owner. In fact, he had told nearly no one before he addressed a mass of hastily assembled reporters.“I couldn’t face her to tell her,” he said, referring to Buss. He later added that he would find her at Staples Center to address her in person.Earvin, I loved working side by side with you. You’ve brought us a long way. We will continue the journey. We love you 💜💛 https://t.co/ofmQl6BtBzLater, the team released a statement, calling Johnson “not only a Lakers icon, but our family.”[Magic Johnson’s biggest moments running the Lakers.]“There is no greater Los Angeles Laker than Earvin Johnson,” the statement read, using Johnson’s formal name. “We are deeply grateful to Magic for all that he has done for our franchise — as a player, an ambassador and an executive.”The statement continued, “As we begin the process of moving forward, we will work in a measured and methodical fashion to make the right moves for the future of our organization.”“Measured” and “methodical” would be an about-face from the way Johnson stepped down. It was a surreal scene as he fielded questions for nearly 45 minutes after he made his announcement, appearing to hold back tears at times, and repeatedly said that he loved Buss like a sister. He then posed for pictures with team employees, former teammates and a local news anchor.“I want to go back to having fun,” Johnson, 59, said. “I want to go back to being who I was before taking on this job, and we’re halfway there with LeBron coming. I think this summer, with that other star coming in — whoever’s going to come in — I think this team is going to be in position to really contend for a championship with the growth of the other young players.”Johnson was named to the post in February 2017 and said at the time that it was “a dream come true.” But on Tuesday he said that he wanted to get back to being a mentor and a businessman, and that he had felt limited in his ability to do those things in his current role.For example, he said he was upset that he could not attend Dwyane Wade’s final game for the Miami Heat on Tuesday night — or congratulate Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder on Twitter for finishing the regular season averaging another triple-double. (Johnson said the league would have considered it “tampering.”)Johnson also said that he had received a phone call last week from the tennis star Serena Williams, asking if he would be an adviser to her.“When Serena called me, wow, that’s who I am,” Johnson said. “I love helping people.”He added: “I like to be free. And then I got a great life outside of this. What am I doing? I got a beautiful life, so I’m going to go back to that beautiful life, and I’m looking forward to it.”But there is palace intrigue at play, too — these are the Lakers, after all — and Johnson strongly indicated that he had been leaning toward firing Coach Luke Walton. Buss, though, is known to think highly of Walton, a former Laker who has been the team’s coach for three seasons, and Johnson suggested that he did not want to go through with it.“I would have to affect someone’s livelihood and their life,” Johnson said, “and I thought about that. That’s not fun for me. That’s not who I am, and then I don’t want to put her in the middle of us, even though she said, ‘Hey, do what you want to do.’ I know she has great love for him.”The Lakers, who have been downtrodden in recent years, are still one of the most glamorous franchises in the league, and Johnson, who helped the Lakers win five championships as a Hall of Fame point guard, remains one of the organization’s most popular figures.Johnson was hired to replace Jim Buss, the brother of Jeanie Buss. Johnson, who had previously been a partial owner of the team as well, worked alongside Rob Pelinka, a former agent, who was brought in as the team’s general manager. (Johnson said that he had not told Pelinka of his decision to step down, either.)While Johnson had some memorable moments at the helm of the Lakers’ operation, the roster that he and Pelinka built around James was widely considered inadequate. After losing to Portland in their finale, the Lakers had a record of 37-45, which assured them of missing the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season. It is the first losing effort by a James-led team since the star forward’s rookie season in 2003-04, when his Cleveland Cavaliers went 35-47.On Tuesday, Johnson preached patience.“I’m excited about the direction,” he said before he headed out the door.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinTom Thibodeau, the Minnesota Timberwolves’ coach and president, was abruptly fired on Sunday night — after a 22-point victory.Following a 108-86 rout at home against the LeBron James-less Los Angeles Lakers, Minnesota announced that it had ousted Thibodeau with two and a half seasons left on his five-year contract, and less than two months removed from the trade of the longtime Thibodeau favorite Jimmy Butler to the Philadelphia 76ers.Ryan Saunders, son of the former Timberwolves coach Flip Saunders, was elevated to interim coach with the Wolves at 19-21 — two games behind the eighth-seeded Lakers in the Western Conference. Saunders, 32, will be the N.B.A.’s youngest coach.Thibodeau is the third N.B.A. coach to be fired this season, joining Fred Hoiberg of the Chicago Bulls and Tyronn Lue of the Cleveland Cavaliers.It was widely presumed that Thibodeau would be in trouble at season’s end if he failed to secure a playoff berth after the headline-making deterioration of Minnesota’s relationship with Butler since the end of last season.The timing of this change, though, suggests that the Timberwolves felt a need to create two prime vacancies before Hoiberg finds a new job.The New York Times reported in December that the Wolves would probably be the only N.B.A. team to consider hiring Hoiberg to coach after his unsuccessful stint in Chicago, because of Hoiberg’s close relationship with the Timberwolves’ owner, Glen Taylor.With Hoiberg also expected to be a serious candidate for U.C.L.A.’s coaching vacancy, Minnesota can now contend for his services.ESPN reported Sunday night that the Wolves, though, are determined to keep the coaching and personnel roles separate in the future, meaning Hoiberg — or anyone else they hire — would have to choose one or the other.Thibodeau’s dismissal leaves San Antonio’s Gregg Popovich as the only coach in the 30-team N.B.A. who also holds personnel power as team president. But even Popovich does not operate in that manner, delegating virtually all of his personnel power to the team president, R. C. Buford.The Timberwolves ended a 13-year playoff drought last season by posting a 47-35 record, with Butler and the young center Karl-Anthony Towns emerging as All-Stars.Butler, however, rebuffed Minnesota’s offer of a contract extension in July in the first hint of his discontent. He ultimately asked for a trade days before the start of training camp in September — despite a long association with Thibodeau dating to their days in Chicago.Butler maintained that he had made his desire to leave Minnesota in free agency clear to the Wolves for months. But Thibodeau and his general manager, Scott Layden, did not begin to seek trades for Butler until training camp was underway and ultimately dealt him to Philadelphia on Nov. 12 for a package headlined by Dario Saric and Robert Covington. The team was 4-9 at the time.“I said let’s let it go and see how things worked and I think now, we’ve gone up through halfway through the season and I don’t think we’re where we thought we would be or where we think we should be,” Taylor told The Minneapolis Star-Tribune.“I’m just looking at the results. The results are that I don’t think we should’ve lost against Phoenix or Detroit or New Orleans or Atlanta. Maybe one of those games. We just lost against a bunch of teams that we’re a better team.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers has shown throughout his 16-year N.B.A. career that he is good at a lot of basketball-related activities, including scoring, passing, rebounding and winning. But perhaps one of his most remarkable assets — a feat, really — is his durability. He seldom misses games because of injury.But now, less than a week after turning 34, James is still on the mend from straining his left groin in a win over the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day. The timetable for his return remains uncertain.The Lakers announced on Friday, before playing the visiting Knicks, that James would not make a coming trip with the team for back-to-back games against the Minnesota Timberwolves on Sunday and the Dallas Mavericks on Monday. The Lakers’ next game after that is on Wednesday against the Detroit Pistons at Staples Center.The team said in its statement that James was making “progress with his recovery” as he received daily treatment from the team’s medical staff and that he would be re-evaluated in one week.Entering Friday, the Lakers had lost three of the four games they had played without James, dropping them to eighth place in the Western Conference standings with a 21-17 record — a precarious position for a team with playoff hopes. The Sacramento Kings were two games back in ninth place.James’s absence has been compounded by the loss of Rajon Rondo, a veteran point guard who injured a ligament in his right ring finger against the Warriors and could miss three to four more weeks after undergoing surgery. Rondo had already missed 17 games this season because of a fractured bone in the same hand.Their absences have meant an increased reliance on the team’s young core, which includes Brandon Ingram, Kyle Kuzma and Lonzo Ball. Those players have delivered at times, but not consistently enough to manufacture many wins.As for James, he had been playing some of the finest basketball of his career, averaging 27.3 points, 8.3 rebounds and 7.1 assists while shooting 51.8 percent from the field and 35.6 percent from 3-point range. He appeared in each of the Lakers’ first 34 games and had not missed a game since April 12, 2017, back when he was employed by the Cleveland Cavaliers. That gave him a streak of 156 consecutive games played, including in the postseason.“I take a lot of pride in it,” James said of his sturdiness after injuring his groin. “That’s why it pissed me off not to be able to go back into the game. It’s more than anything being available to my teammates, being available to my coaching staff. That’s something I take more personal than anything. Hopefully it’s not a long thing.”The Lakers initially listed James as day-to-day after he underwent a magnetic resonance imaging exam. But Coach Luke Walton has said that the team will be cautious with James, who signed a four-year, $154 million deal in July.For much of his career, James has been able to ward off the corrosive effects of his profession — the daily wear and tear, the punishment from defenders. If nothing else, the last couple of weeks have revealed him to be at least semi-mortal, after all — and the Lakers are taking no chances, hoping they can remain afloat until he returns.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreBy Victor MatherThe Knicks won a basketball game Thursday night. That has not happened since Jan. 4.There won’t be a ticker-tape parade, but it was a surprise. This, after all, has been a really bad season for the Knicks.They are 11-47. The win, over the Atlanta Hawks, 106-91, broke an 18-game losing streak, which was a franchise record.The team traded away its most popular player by far, Kristaps Porzingis, and in return got a rookie and a couple of expiring contracts. The deal also meant the cancellation of the coming Latvian Heritage Night at Madison Square Garden, which frankly was shaping up to be one of the highlights of the season.To be fair, a core of loyalists insist that these Knicks are a fun bunch to watch. And there is optimistic talk for next year.The Knicks are bad enough to have a decent shot at the top draft pick, probably Zion Williamson, Duke’s superstar big man. Cap space will allow the team to seek big-name free agents, and there is sunny speculation that the team could land stars like Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving or even both.We’ll see about that. But for now, fans are left pondering if the Knicks are historically dreadful or just run-of-the-mill dreadful.Let’s see how the Knicks rate, at least in the current century.That means this year’s Knicks won’t have to compete against the consensus worst team of them all, the legendary 9-73 Philadelphia 76ers of 1972-73.Despite a couple of 50-win seasons, in 2000 and 2013, the Knicks’ winning percentage this century is .416, worst in the N.B.A. Yes, even worse than the Washington Wizards, and Charlotte Hornets, and even the Nets.Here is how the 2018-19 Knicks stack up.This is where it begins and ends. Wins. Losses. But mostly losses. Lots and lots of losses.The Knicks are 11-47, giving them a winning percentage that looks like a typo: .190.But there were worse seasons in the last 20 years. In 2012, the Bobcats (now the Hornets) finished at 7-59 in a lockout season for a .106 percentage.Over a full season, the 76ers in 2016, in full tanking mode, only barely managed to break double digit wins with a 10-72 record.The Knicks are only 11th worst.Even counting just those streaks that are contained in a single season, the Knicks’ 18-gamer comes up short. The 2011 Cleveland Cavaliers and the 2014 76ers both managed to stumble to 26 straight losses. After Thursday’s win, the Knicks have lost their chance at that ignominious record.The Knicks have been outscored by 8.7 points in an average game this season.Again, there have been worse teams. The 2012 Charlotte strike team lost by 13.9 points a game. The 2000 Clippers put up minus-11.5 over a full season.The Knicks are only 25th.There are those Sixers again: In 2015, they shot .408 for the season. At .430, the Knicks are 39th.The 2009 Grizzlies had only 17.4 assists per game, trailed closely by the 2006 Knicks of Larry Brown, Stephon Marbury and notorious nonpasser Eddy Curry.This season’s Knicks aren’t good, but they aren’t really bad, at 19.9, for 91st place.It is not a good time for defensive stats in the N.B.A. Using the metric points allowed per 100 possessions, three teams this season are in the top five of the century: The Cavaliers are allowing 117 points per 100, worst of the era, and indeed for as far back as Basketball-Reference’s stats go. Over the last 20 years, this season‘s Suns are second, and the Knicks, at 113.4, are seventh.Do any of this year’s Knicks individually reach truly humiliating marks? Not really.Frank Ntilikina’s .342 shooting percentage is poor certainly, but it is only 24th worst among players with 15 minutes a game and 40 games played, a lot better than DeShawn Stevenson’s .285 from the 2012 Nets.So we are forced to conclude, that while dispiritingly bad, the Knicks come up short in another way too. They are not even really close to being the worst team of the last 20 years.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free weekly newsletter here.]Andrew Bogut made his return to the N.B.A. on Wednesday, signing a rest-of-the-season contract to rejoin the Golden State Warriors. The reunion came two years to the day since Bogut, the former No. 1 overall selection in the 2005 draft, sustained a gruesome leg injury.Bogut, 34, spent this season starring for the Sydney Kings in his native Australia and, by his own admission, was convinced “that the N.B.A. door had shut.”But the Warriors began lobbying Bogut to rejoin them in December and made it to March with a roster opening for the 7-foot center, who wasn’t available to be signed until the Kings’ season ended last weekend.“I was kind of blown away,” Bogut said in a telephone interview from Australia. “This wasn’t a situation where I threw my hat in the ring to try to get signed in the N.B.A. I wouldn’t do that.“To come back to the N.B.A., for me, was basically Golden State or nothing. But the fact it was Golden State — it was the kind of opportunity that I would be kicking myself if I didn’t take.”When Bogut signed a two-year deal with Sydney last April, he described it as “my official retirement from the N.B.A.” He proceeded to win Most Valuable Player and Defensive Player of the Year honors in Australia’s National Basketball League, averaging 11.4 points, 11.6 rebounds, 3.4 assists and 2.7 blocks per game.Bogut’s contract with Sydney does not contain an N.B.A. release clause, but he told the Warriors that he would entertain the prospect of rejoining them on a short-term basis after the Australian season — as long as Sydney officials blessed it — should Golden State still have a need.Had the Warriors succeeded in landing a recent free agent from the so-called “buyout” market — such as the swingman Wesley Matthews, who opted to sign with Indiana after securing his release from the Knicks — they would have had no roster room for Bogut.But once it became clear that the Chicago Bulls would refuse to release the veteran center Robin Lopez before March 1, thus missing deadline for Lopez to retain his playoff eligibility with a new team, Golden State intensified its pursuit of Bogut as soon as the Kings were eliminated from the N.B.L. playoffs.As the Warriors continue to try to assimilate the former All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins into their rotation, Bogut said he had “no illusions” about the fact that “some games I’ll play and some games I won’t.” But Bogut insisted he was “happy to be a positive influence on that bench” no matter how much he plays.The Warriors assistant general manager Larry Harris, who was Milwaukee’s general manager in 2005 when the Bucks selected Bogut with the top pick in the draft, made a recent scouting trip to Australia to assess the state of Bogut’s game firsthand and convey the seriousness of Golden State’s interest.Warriors Coach Steve Kerr referred to Bogut as “an insurance policy in the frontcourt.” But Bogut’s defensive know-how and his familiarity with the Warriors’ star trio of Stephen Curry, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green certainly can’t hurt the league’s prohibitive championship favorites in the quest to improve on their woeful standing of 16th in defensive efficiency (109.5 points allowed per 100 possessions.)“I didn’t foresee this happening but I’m excited as hell about it,” Green told Bay Area reporters. He and Bogut quickly meshed as co-anchors of a vaunted Golden State defense in 2014-15, when the Warriors began their five-season run of dominance.After the Warriors won a league-record 73 games in 2015-16 but blew a 3-1 lead to the LeBron James-led Cavaliers in the N.B.A. finals, Bogut and the veteran forward Harrison Barnes were quickly jettisoned to Dallas to create the requisite salary-cap space for Golden State to sign Kevin Durant.Bogut, though, said that returning to the Warriors nearly three years later to play alongside Durant would not “be weird” despite the contentious nature of his departure.“The Golden State Warriors are a very special organization in my heart,” Bogut said. “I had a lot of great years there and won a championship. Even though they moved me, it was understandable to get a guy like Kevin Durant. I probably would have traded myself if I had the same opportunity.”It was Bogut’s longtime agent, David Bauman of Independent Sports and Entertainment, who first pointed out to him that Wednesday’s signing with the Warriors coincided with the two-year anniversary of the fractured tibia in his left leg that Bogut sustained 56 seconds into his Cleveland Cavaliers debut in March 2017.“It’s just funny how the world works sometimes,” Bogut said. “This is an unbelievable opportunity that I’m really thankful for.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — To celebrate their first home win in 25 days, the Lakers on Sunday dropped streamers that had been collecting dust from the ceiling at Staples Center. The final lineup of the night included Alex Caruso, a 25-year-old guard who spent most of the season in the N.B.A.’s developmental G League.Caruso knows things were not supposed to be this way. His mere presence — in a crunchtime situation, no less — was a vivid sign that the season had gone sideways for the Lakers, who will be watching the playoffs from various vacation destinations.Caruso also knows that the Lakers are playing fairly meaningless games, including Sunday’s 111-106 victory over the Sacramento Kings. The Lakers (32-41) have nine more of these to go, starting Tuesday against the Washington Wizards. The buzz of LeBron James’s first season as a Laker is gone. The roster will be overhauled again this summer as the franchise, which has not been to the playoffs since 2013, rummages for solutions.“But for me,” Caruso said, “these games are really meaningful.”The Lakers are searching for motivation wherever they can find it, especially as they head toward an off-season of uncertainty. Coach Luke Walton’s job status is tenuous at best, and 10 players on the current roster do not have guaranteed deals for next season. Some of them, like Caruso, are trying to showcase their skills in hopes of acquiring N.B.A. work next season.“I think this little stretch has been really good,” Caruso said, “because it’s finally allowed me to put all that work I’ve put in over the last two years and show how much I’ve evolved as a player. That I’m gaining confidence and making strides to get better and better.” In 16 appearances for the Lakers this season, Caruso has shot 44.6 percent from the field, averaging 6 points and 2.2 rebounds.Even players who figure to be a part of the franchise’s future are focusing on personal growth. A team is always a collection of individuals, but the Lakers’ late-season emphasis on “me” is particularly understandable.“I need to use these games to develop myself and play with the ball more,” the second-year forward Kyle Kuzma said recently.The Lakers were not yet mathematically eliminated from playoff contention when they lost to the Knicks at Madison Square Garden on March 17 — that would happen five days later — but Kuzma stood by his locker in a red leather jumpsuit after the game and spoke about the immediate future.“I’m just trying to use these last 13, 14 games — whatever we have — to just try to develop good habits,” he said. “Season’s pretty much over, so that’s the only thing I can really do. Everyone knows I’m a good scorer and I can do that. I’m just trying to complete my game.”Then there are the injured players who have largely disappeared from view: Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram, Josh Hart. For them, the end of this season is about rehabbing for the next one.After all the losses, injuries and general dysfunction, Walton continues to preach the importance of team play. Same as ever.“It starts with our effort and how we play and how we compete,” he said. “And our guys have been doing a nice job of that, even though we haven’t been winning games. Whatever lineups we’ve been putting out there, they’re giving what they have. So that’s the No. 1 thing.”As for James, these are his first truly inconsequential games since his rookie season with the Cleveland Cavaliers, who finished well out of playoff contention. But even then, he could use the end of the season as an opportunity to hone his abilities and gain experience for future endeavors — such as eight consecutive trips to the N.B.A. Finals.So it is a credit to James, even as the grease fire of his first season with the Lakers smolders, that he is out there — trying. Against the Kings, he finished with his 81st career triple-double: 29 points, 11 assists, 11 rebounds. How does he sustain the motivation?“If he’s out there on the court, he’s going to give what he has,” Walton said. “That’s probably a better question for him, but I’m getting to know him, and that’s the type of person he is: He respects and loves the game. So if he’s going to play, he’s going to give what he has.”James said he appreciated the fans who continued to show up. He also said he owed it to himself to play with genuine effort.“I’ve always respected the basketball gods,” James said, “and if I’m on the floor, I got to try to play as hard as I can or do something to affect the game and not cheat the game.”Still, times have changed for the Lakers, who have not been to the playoffs since 2013. Before that, they routinely fixated on the Western Conference standings and the number of wins they would need to make the playoffs. Now, the most important number in their universe is 3 percent — as in, their odds of winning the N.B.A. draft lottery.Then again, the Lakers are not the only team that has so little at stake at this stage of the season. Look no further than the Kings, whose push for a playoff berth has deteriorated in recent weeks. Before Sunday’s game, Coach Dave Joerger held a brief news conference. No one had much to ask.“I can give you some more stuff,” he said. “I mean, it’s sunny out. It’s spring. It smells like March Madness, Lent and the N.B.A. playoffs. Get the seedings, get it done. Exciting times.”He paused again.“Nothing else?” he asked.Nothing else.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreThe Knicks rookie is blocking shots at a rate unseen since the days of Manute Bol. On a bad team, he’s a reason to keep watching.By Benjamin HoffmanBack in November, Mitchell Robinson showed the world what he’s capable of.Robinson, the rookie Knicks center, absorbed contact under the basket from Orlando’s Melvin Frazier and flopped to the court, hoping for a foul that was never called. Instead, the Magic passed the ball around a few times, finding a wide-open Jerian Grant in the corner, 22 feet from a supine Robinson.In three seconds that defied reasonable expectation, Robinson got to his feet, raced toward the corner and leapt into the air. He fully extended his lanky 7-foot-1 frame and swatted the 3-point attempt out of midair so matter-of-factly that Grant pulled his hands toward his body, looking almost sorry that he had attempted the shot.The block was Robinson’s eighth of the game, setting a Knicks rookie record (which he stretched to nine blocks by the end of the night). But beyond the block’s impact in the moment, the play illustrated the 20-year-old’s approach to this season. The perception may be that the Knicks are tanking in hopes of drafting Duke’s Zion Williamson, but for Robinson, any shot an opponent takes is a chance for him to get a block — and he is not going to be cheated out of any of them, even if the shooter is beyond the 3-point line. As a result, a mostly irrelevant team has become must-watch television.Last time we met the Magic @thegarden, @23savage____ set the Knicks rookie record for blocks ✋ Another block party tonight? 👀 pic.twitter.com/3RgRQoROecThe Knicks had not forgotten that November block when the Magic came back to Madison Square Garden on Tuesday. The team posted a video of the play on Twitter, wondering if history would repeat. The post proved prophetic, as Robinson led the way in a 108-103 victory for the Knicks with 17 points, 14 rebounds, 6 blocks and 3 steals in 33 minutes off the bench. Four of the blocks came in just 40 seconds in the second quarter.“The kid is making history right now,” Knicks Coach David Fizdale said of Robinson after the win. “He’s putting himself in groups with historic names. Every single day he continues to grow and get better.”The Knicks’ two-game winning streak ended on Thursday with a disappointing 125-118 loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers. But even in defeat, Robinson managed to add to his highlight reel, this time with a shot an opponent didn’t take. It was early in the second quarter, and Cavaliers guard Matthew Dellavedova got the ball with a clean look at the basket from 3-point range. As he prepared to shoot, he noticed Robinson a few feet in front of him, with the rookie lowering his shoulder slightly as he prepared to leap. Dellavedova immediately thought better of trying his luck and passed the ball instead. A few seconds later on the same possession, Robinson got his block anyway, swatting away a layup attempt from Marquese Chriss.A rare prep-to-pro N.B.A. player as a result of his complicated withdrawal from Western Kentucky University, Robinson has been limited to 18.6 minutes a game as he works to refine his game, but he is still third in the N.B.A. at 2.3 blocks a game. When rated by block percentage, which estimates the percentage of an opponents’ shots a player blocks in his time on the floor, Robinson is nothing short of stunning, at 10.4 percent.Basketball Reference has tracked block percentage back to the 1973-74 season, and the top-four seasons among players with 100 or more blocks belong to Manute Bol, the 7-foot-7 shot-blocking savant. No. 5 on the list belongs to Robinson. Sample size obviously needs to be considered, but Robinson stands a chance of being the only qualified player beyond Bol and Alonzo Mourning to finish a season with a block percentage higher than 10. Rim protection luminaries such as Serge Ibaka (9.8), Mark Eaton (9.2) and Dikembe Mutombo (8.8) all fell short of that mark in their best seasons. Robinson, who has quickly become a fan favorite, believes he is just getting started. He was asked recently how many shots he could block a game if the team let him play 30 minutes a night. “Probably around six,” he said. “I feel like I can get like six.”The N.B.A. season record for blocks per game is 5.6, set by Eaton in 1984-85, yet Robinson’s boast does not seem all that far-fetched, largely because of his unusual ability to block shots along the perimeter as well as under the basket.“His potential is crazy,” Emmanuel Mudiay, the Knicks guard, told reporters before Thursday’s game. “He’s probably the best shot-blocker I ever played with in my life. In my opinion, he’s the best shot-blocker in the league.”Fizdale has said that Robinson’s confidence and execution have improved since the team acquired DeAndre Jordan to serve as his mentor. The numbers back that up, as Robinson has averaged 11 points, 8.7 rebounds and 3.2 blocks a game since Jordan’s arrival on Jan. 31, while still averaging only 23.1 minutes a night. He has also continued to pester outside shooters, with eight of his 35 blocks in February coming on 3-point attempts. Fizdale was asked recently if Robinson compared to any other players he had coached. The coach, who has worked with excellent rim protectors like Marc Gasol, Jermaine O’Neal and Chris Andersen, spoke about his rookie like a proud father.“No,” he said. “He’s a different guy, and he’s got so much more room to grow. I’m going to keep my foot way up his butt to make sure he does.”That could be terrible news for anyone looking to get a shot off against the Knicks in the coming years. They might find there is no place to hide.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThere's no LeBron James in these playoffs, so the NBA Finals will have a distinctly new look for the first time in nine years.There's no Tony Parker, for the first time in nearly two decades.There's no Dwyane Wade, and he'll never play a playoff game again.San Antonio is in the postseason for a record-tying 22nd consecutive season. Brooklyn, Denver, Detroit, Orlando and the Los Angeles Clippers got into these playoffs after watching the postseason last year.As always at playoff time, there are some familiar things and some not-so-familiar things. With the postseason set to begin Saturday, here's 10 things to know going into the best time of the NBA year:DRIVE FOR FIVEGolden State is trying to reach the NBA Finals for the fifth consecutive season.If the Warriors get there, they would be the second franchise ever with such a streak — joining only the Boston Celtics, who went there in 10 straight seasons from 1957-66.The Warriors are one of five franchises with a streak of four straight NBA Finals trips: the Los Angeles Lakers did it from 1982-85, the Celtics also did it from 1984-87, the Miami Heat did it from 2011-14 and the Cleveland Cavaliers did it from 2015-18.Golden State is also seeking its seventh championship in franchise history. That would put the Warriors in sole possession of third place on the NBA's most-titles list, behind Boston (17) and the Lakers (16).The Warriors and Chicago are currently tied for third with six championships each.BLOWOUT BUCKSMilwaukee had 45 double-digit wins this season, the most in the NBA.That's a really good omen for the Bucks.Only four teams in NBA history have posted more double-digit wins in a regular season than the Bucks this year. Those clubs are the 1971-72 Los Angeles Lakers (50), the 2016-17 Golden State Warriors (48), the 1970-71 Bucks (47) and the 1995-96 Chicago Bulls (46).All four of those teams went on to win the NBA championship.MR. 3000?Houston's James Harden scored 2,818 points in the regular season, which puts him on the cusp of joining a very elite club.If Harden scores 182 in the playoffs, that will give him a total of 3,000 — and he would be the 10th player in NBA history to score that many in a full season, postseason included. The others: Michael Jordan (10 times), Wilt Chamberlain (five times), Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Rick Barry, Elgin Baylor, Kobe Bryant, Kevin Durant, Bob McAdoo and Shaquille O'Neal.Durant was the last to do it, in 2013-14.LeBron James almost got into the club last year, coming as close as humanly possible — he scored 2,999 points for Cleveland.WELCOME BACKKawhi Leonard's last postseason appearance ended earlier than planned, when he hurt his left ankle while taking a jumper over Golden State's Zaza Pachulia in Game 1 of the 2017 Western Conference finals. Pachulia closed out aggressively, Leonard didn't have space to land safely and he missed the rest of that series.When Leonard left the game, he and San Antonio were up by 23. The Spurs lost that lead, lost the game, lost the series and Leonard never played a postseason second with the Spurs again after that bad landing.Toronto is hoping that Leonard can rekindle his typical postseason magic in his playoff return.Leonard enters these playoffs with a 32-game streak of double-digit postseason outings, averaging 24.1 points in those contests.STEPH RISINGWarriors guard Stephen Curry is on pace to catch Ray Allen and become the NBA's all-time 3-point leader sometime in the 2020-21 season.That stat only takes regular-season games into account. In the postseason, Curry is about to become No. 1.Curry has 378 career postseason 3s, good for No. 2 on the NBA's all-time playoff list. Allen is No. 1, with 385.PLAYOFF CASHThe 16 playoff teams are playing for the Larry O'Brien Trophy, for rings, for a parade ... and for a stake of $21,676,510.That's the amount of this year's NBA Playoff Pool — a record.Every playoff team is assured of some of the pie, which is often used to fund bonuses for players and team staff.So far, all 16 teams are due at least $323,506 each. Most have already clinched much more because finishing in the top six spots in each conference also comes with a bonus. For example, Milwaukee — because it had the best record in the NBA — is already due $1,495,750.Teams get an additional $384,930 for winning a first-round series. Conference finalists get another $638,094. The losing team in the NBA Finals gets another $2,543,681 and the NBA champs get one more payout of $3,838,798.Add it all up, and the Bucks could get $6,355,572 if they win the title. No other team can win that much.HOUSTON, A PROBLEM?Houston is the No. 4 seed in the Western Conference, and faces No. 5 seed Utah in the first round.History suggests the Rockets are in trouble.In each of the last seven seasons, and nine of the last 10, the No. 5 team in the West has beaten the No. 4 team in the first round.Utah has won each of its last five appearances in a 4-versus-5 series. The fifth-seeded Jazz knocked off Oklahoma City in 2018, the Los Angeles Clippers in 2017 and Denver in 2010. The Jazz were seeded No. 4 when they won a 4-versus-5 series in 2007 and 2008 — both of those coming against Houston.BOOGIE'S DEBUTDeMarcus Cousins is No. 1 on a list that nobody wants to lead.By this weekend, he'll be off the list entirely.Cousins has played in 565 regular-season games and zero postseason games. That'll change this weekend when he and Golden State play host to the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 1 of a Western Conference first-round series.No active NBA player has been in more regular-season games without a playoff appearance than Cousins. When he plays for the Warriors this weekend, and when Kyle O'Quinn — currently No. 2 on the list with 443 regular-season games without a postseason minute — plays for Indiana, the new active leader in games played without a postseason appearance will be Brandon Knight.He's played in 421 and is still looking for his first playoff outing.MILESTONE COMINGSometime in the next couple of months, the 4,000th playoff game in NBA history will be played.There have been 3,934 postseason contests so far. Based on the way last season went, the milestone game will come late in the conference-semifinal round or early in the conference-final round.FINALS STARTThis season's NBA Finals start May 30. It'll be the earliest Game 1 of the title series since 1986, when Boston and Houston opened their series on May 26.___Advertisement
On Pro BasketballA move West came with dire warnings, but the reality is setting in that a James-led team might miss the playoffs.The last time LeBron James’s team missed the playoffs was 2004-5, his second year in the N.B.A.CreditCreditMark J. Rebilas/USA Today Sports, via ReutersSupported byBy Marc SteinLeBron James can’t say that he wasn’t warned. Lots of us were crowing in the summer, and pretty loudly so, about what would greet the unquestioned Lord of the Eastern Conference if he dared to defect. Sign with the Los Angeles Lakers if you wish, for the sunnier Hollywood life and all the perks, but brace yourself for the most trying regular season of your career if you decide to go West. That was the gist of the scouting report — which in retrospect could not have been much more prescient. On cue: The most daunting and, yes, disappointing season of James’s career is right here, right now, for the biggest name in basketball.And it appears he will soon have to stomach that it’s going on his ledger in the most permanent ink that he was unable to bring a halt to the longest postseason drought in Lakers history — barring an unforeseen resurrection from a fractured group that sits four and a half games out of a Western Conference playoff berth with 19 games to go.No matter how much culpability you wish to assign James for what is poised to go down as the Lakers’ franchise-record sixth successive trip to the draft lottery, he’s going to have to own this as much as the front-office tandem of Magic Johnson and Rob Pelinka as well as the under-fire coach Luke Walton.The LeBron Way, for years and years, has worked something like this: He inevitably gets most of the credit when his team flourishes; his teammates absorb the bulk of the blame when things unravel. But this is different. This would be the jarring sight of James, fresh off his eighth consecutive finals appearance, actually missing out on the N.B.A. postseason for the first time since his second professional season in 2004-5, when he was just 20.Even though he can rightly point to his recent groin strain as the biggest standings-altering disruption these Lakers have endured, James surely understands that his maiden campaign in Los Angeles is bound to be recorded in many precincts as a failure to make the playoffs that belongs to him.The Lakers are 4-7 since James returned from the groin injury that sidelined him longer (17 consecutive games) than any previous injury in his 16-year career. They have followed up an unsightly road loss to Atlanta in their final game before the All-Star break with harder-to-rationalize road losses to New Orleans, Memphis and Phoenix since the break.After Saturday night’s humiliation against a 13-51 Suns team, which dropped the Lakers to 30-33, James’s gang only sports a 1.3-percent chance of reaching the postseason, according to Basketball-Reference.com.They also have the league’s eighth-toughest remaining schedule, according to Tankathon.com. We’ll never know if the Lakers, who had risen to a heady fourth in the West at 20-14 when James sustained the groin injury in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State, could have kept building upon that promising start with a healthy LeBron. But we most certainly do know that James’s mere return to the lineup, at 34, wasn’t enough to rescue a roster that has been assailed since conception for its lack of perimeter shooting and its defensive deficiencies. Nor has he been able to galvanize a locker room that was deeply destabilized by the Lakers’ trade pursuit of the New Orleans superstar Anthony Davis, which became all-consuming in late January, and has never recovered. It obviously doesn’t help that James, after missing two key free throws in the final minute Saturday, is also converting a substandard 66.9 percent of his attempts from the line to give his critics more handy fodder.Leaving his home-state Cleveland Cavaliers for the Lakers last July without the accompaniment of a second superstar meant that James, in a far deeper conference, would have little margin for error just to reach the playoffs. When you combine James’s injury absence with the continuing post-Davis malaise and the team’s declining ball movement since Lonzo Ball (ankle) was sidelined six weeks ago, it adds up rather quickly to a margin that is long gone.The calls for Walton’s dismissal, as they were in January, remain nonsensical. A coaching change now, much like New Orleans’s decision to fire General Manager Dell Demps shortly after the trade deadline, would have no discernible effect on the Lakers’ short-term prospects beyond providing their frustrated fans with a “See? We did something” sacrifice.The prevailing assumption in league coaching circles remains that Walton will almost certainly be dismissed after the season, followed by the Lakers resuming their trade quest for Davis. But denying Walton an opportunity to at finish out a season wrought with drama and distraction since James’s first dribble in purple and gold would be cruel and needless. Changes are coming, though. It’s an open secret that a big off-season reset looms in Lakerland. James always knew that his new club would not be in the title mix until his second campaign as a Laker, but his patience predictably faded quickly — one more reason desperation has become so palpable around this team. Many of us know-it-alls in the news media indeed wrote in our preseason forecasts that the playoffs were no certainty for these Lakers, as constructed, but very few of us were actually willing to outright predict that they would miss out. Reason being: It’s not very smart to bet against LeBron Raymone James.Yet we’ve suddenly reached that unprecedented juncture where it would be wholly irresponsible to advise you that James can extricate himself from this jam just because he’s LeBron. Whether it’s the lingering effects from his groin injury, or his own unmistakably waning spirit in the face of increasingly bleak odds, James has been lacking the zip you associate with his well-chronicled playoff mode — which he assured us on Feb. 21 had been “activated” earlier than usual.I briefly stood beside James on the floor in Charlotte, N.C., before the All-Star Game tipped off and bought into the idea a surge was coming when he insisted he was eager to embrace “the challenge” of hauling the Lakers out of their hole.“And I’m getting healthy, too,” James said that night. A mere two weeks later, it’s already time to start imagining the N.B.A.’s first spring without King James after watching him for eight straight Junes — and wondering how on Earth he’s going to cope with not being a part of it.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaATLANTA — Kyle Kuzma had his first interaction with LeBron James a little more than a year ago, when Kuzma was a first-year forward with the Los Angeles Lakers and James was a few months from dragging the Cleveland Cavaliers to another appearance in the N.B.A. finals. Kuzma had reached out by phone, hoping for some tips.“Just wanted to see how one of the greats takes care of his body and has so much longevity,” Kuzma recalled this week in an interview. “Everybody wants to play basketball for as long as possible.”So much has changed since that initial conversation. Kuzma and James are teammates now, and Kuzma is experiencing the unique challenges that come with playing alongside one of the game’s behemoths. At the same time, James’s body finally betrayed him this season, which has only heightened the sense of urgency within the organization: The Lakers, who have missed the playoffs for five years running, are not in position for a patient rebuild.James, at 34, may still be in his prime, but the stakes are already high for a franchise that desperately wants to maximize his time in Los Angeles. And while neither James nor Lakers management has shown much enthusiasm for coaxing along a young core — the Lakers tried to ship half the roster to New Orleans last week — they are stuck in this together. James was supposed to be the savior of a flagship franchise gone astray; salvaging the final months of this year would be a key indicator that he still wields that type of power.“We have to approach the rest of the season just like you would during the playoffs,” Kuzma said.As Kuzma recalled his talk with James, he had no way of knowing that the Lakers were mere hours from suffering one final implosion before the N.B.A. All-Star break — a 117-113 loss to the Atlanta Hawks that left the team with a losing record and ample opportunity for soul searching.“It’s time for us to get away and reflect a little bit about where we are as a group,” Coach Luke Walton said. “I think this first part of the season, we’ve gone through a lot of adversity. And we’re probably not where we want to be, but we’re still close enough.”Close enough, that is, for vying for a spot in the playoffs, which was both an indication of the team’s modest goals and its sad reality. At 28-29, the Lakers are in 10th place in the Western Conference standings. It is unfamiliar territory for James, who has not been on a losing team this late in a season since he was a first-year forward with the Cavaliers.“But with LeBron on your team, anything is possible,” said Mychal Thompson, a power forward for the Showtime-era Lakers and an analyst for the team’s radio broadcasts. “I mean, look at some of the teams he’s taken to the finals — including last season. He’s capable of doing great things if you just get on board and run with him.”The Lakers, though, seem fragile after nearly five months of drama — all of it stemming directly or indirectly from the $154 million deal that James signed to join the team last summer. The pressure was on from the start, and little has gone according to plan.“There’s been more noise this year,” Walton said, “but that was to be expected with the moves in the off-season. That was something to be anticipated.”Where to begin? Brandon Ingram and Rajon Rondo were suspended for trying to brawl with the Houston Rockets two games into the season. Magic Johnson, the team’s outspoken president of basketball operations, chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting for the team’s slow start, igniting lasting questions about Walton’s job security. Nearly every player on the roster has been injured, and that includes James, who missed 17 games with a strained groin.And lest we forget: Last week, Johnson and General Manager Rob Pelinka tried to trade away nearly half the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans for Anthony Davis, who, before the start of the season, hired the same agent who represents James. It was the clearest sign yet that Johnson is willing to attempt the very boldest moves — no matter the residual damage.Consider that the Lakers, amid their ultimately fruitless effort to pry Davis away from the Pelicans, lost by 42 points to the Indiana Pacers. And with rumors of which Lakers would be traded swirling through social media, it was difficult to find arguments in their defense — even from James himself.Kuzma, who was offered up as one of the pieces in a potential deal, said it had been difficult to drown out the noise.“It’s definitely tough,” he said, “because this generation, you’re always on your phone, always on social media, always seeing it somewhere on TV.”But the trade deadline passed, and the roster more or less remained intact. There had been a sense that a surprising win against the Boston Celtics on Feb. 7 would galvanize the team in the wake of so much uncertainty. And even after losing to the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, the Lakers still had a chance to build some momentum against the Hawks on Tuesday.Before the game, James appeared to be in an upbeat mood. In the locker room, he knelt on a giant inflatable ball as he worked on some core-strengthening exercises. He crooned the lyrics to “Plug Walk” by the hip-hop artist Rich the Kid. He made small talk with Ingram. It was all vintage James.About three hours later, once the Lakers had punctuated their loss with a turnover, James made a beeline off the court and into the tunnel. He was practically steaming. He had finished with his fifth triple-double of the season — 28 points, 16 assists, 11 rebounds — but the Lakers’ defense was as porous as a coffee filter, and the result was just as messy.“I can throw that game in the trash,” James said.In a three-minute postgame session with reporters, Kuzma mentioned the concept of “fun” five times — specifically, the notion that the Lakers were not having much of it.“A lot of times we’re out there with sad faces, very focused faces,” Kuzma said. “But I think we’re at our best when we’re having fun.”Fun may not be the primary objective for James, and the psychic effects of the loss are sure to linger until at least Feb. 21, when their season will resume after the All-Star break with a home game against the Houston Rockets. For now, though, the best thing for these players may be to be away from each other for a while, which was one of Walton’s suggestions before they parted for the break.“Spend some time by yourself,” he said, and added: “I think we’ve got a group that will be ready by the time we get back.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Howard MegdalAaron Gordon sat slouched in front of his locker, immobile as ice packs worked on his body following yet another loss earlier this season. His Orlando Magic teammates showered and dressed, and left.Gordon’s back had been bothering him, and no wonder: He’s in his fifth year of carrying the Magic franchise. And he is in for the long haul, too. After doing what he described as “due diligence” this past summer, Gordon signed a four-year, $80 million contract, handing over most of his mid-20s to a team that, so far, has failed to put a winning combination around him.But if the 6-foot-9 multidimensional star is still waiting for a winning supporting cast, his 2018-19 season is the latest, best evidence yet that he is approaching a specific kind of broad-based play that is fast becoming a requirement for surviving in the N.B.A.Gordon showed it off days ago in a 103-96 win over the Golden State Warriors.He did it all, scoring 22 points, pulling down 15 rebounds and using his defensive athleticism to help limit the Warriors to 9-for-40 shooting from 3-point range. By the end of last week, the surging Magic had found themselves in eighth place in the Eastern Conference and in new territory for Gordon: the playoff race.It has taken every skill Gordon has, but for his part, the 23-year-old has embraced the way the competition in the N.B.A. has demanded that he do virtually everything on any given night.“Versatility is going to be a huge part. The league is going in that direction,” Gordon said. “So it’s going to be 6-9, 6-10, 6-11, 7-foot guys able to do everything — handle the ball, pass, shoot, rebound. That’s the way the game is going to be.”And that’s the way the game is for Gordon, and how it has been dating back to his high school days at Archbishop Mitty in San Jose, Calif., where he played point guard before a late growth spurt turned him into a 6-foot-9 forward at Arizona, and then the fourth overall pick in the 2014 N.B.A. draft.The Magic can use Gordon anywhere.For three consecutive possessions in a game against the Houston Rockets in January, Gordon found himself bringing the ball up the floor and feeding center Nikola Vucevic in the post, settling out on the wing for a 3-pointer on a catch-and-shoot, and then posting up himself.“Offensively, his efficiency is up, and his assists are way up,” Magic Coach Steve Clifford said of Gordon. “I think one of our issues has been drawing fouls and getting the ball going into the paint. And that’s something he’s done a good job with.”Gordon was back in San Jose this past summer, getting up 300 shots every day, and the result has been a 53.3 true shooting percentage, his most efficient showing in three years, even as he’s taken more shots from everywhere on the court and opposing defenses have constructed game plans around stopping him.But he also put in extra time on work like slide steps, all with the long-range goal of becoming an elite two-way player. Clifford said Gordon laid out his plans for himself when the two first spoke after Clifford was hired over the summer.The results have been extraordinary. Per Synergy, Gordon ranks second (of 140 qualified players) in the N.B.A. in points per possession on isolation plays, minimum 40 possessions, with 0.545 points per possession.And he isn’t doing this against just bigs, either: The Magic routinely play him against the opposing team’s biggest offensive threat.When the Magic played the Nets in January, Orlando had Gordon take on Joe Harris, a shooting guard, the league leader in three-point percentage and winner of the three-point contest during All-Star weekend.“That speaks to, first of all, what they think of Joe, and also what they think of Gordon’s defensive game,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “And defensively, when he wants to stop a guy, he can stop him — he has phenomenal athleticism.”The extent of Gordon’s abilities on that end were revealed further against the Nets that night, when a switch landed Gordon on the Nets’ D’Angelo Russell, an uber-quick point guard in the midst of the finest scoring barrage of his career. Russell feinted left, right, trying to find a pathway with his dribble from the top of the key. Gordon did not let him pass, and Russell, clearly frustrated, finally shunted the ball off to a teammate.The indications that Gordon has become a star are there. What is far less clear is how Orlando puts a championship team around him, though Clifford effusively endorsed him as the model player of that future roster.“He fits with what wins in the N.B.A. right now,” Clifford said. “He’s 23, and he’s made terrific gains, already, this year.”Clifford is a capable coach, in his first season with Orlando. But the roster looks less like a plan and more like a series of one-off moves. Vucevic is an excellent, traditional center, but his presence has kept Gordon, along with young bigs Mo Bamba and Jonathan Isaac, from getting significant time developing as the kind of stretch 5s most teams around the league deploy.Gordon is picked to run the offense, and does so effectively — his assist percentage of 16.4 is a career high — but that is in part because Orlando lacks a true starting point guard. Markelle Fultz may be the answer long-term, but whether the embattled former Philadelphia 76ers guard even plays this season remains a mystery.Gordon’s next step, per Clifford, needs to be the role of go-to scorer down the stretch of games, which Gordon agrees with. Will it happen?“Well, we’ll see,” Clifford said. “I mean, that’s what it’s all about. We’ll see.”But he needs help getting to those late-game situations with a chance to win it. Still, as Gordon eases into superstardom in the relative obscurity of Orlando’s slow rise in the East, he often uses visualization to help motivate himself, closing his eyes and picturing what a championship for the only franchise he’s ever known would look like.He said it gets hard to see it sometimes, pointing out that “a lot of things have to go right” even as he said he was sure it will.“Of course,” Gordon said, pulling on his pants gingerly, navigating his sore back.Toppling the Warriors last week showed Gordon just may be right. Losing to the lowly Cleveland Cavaliers on Sunday night, though, showed how far the Magic have to go.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinIn a wholly unforeseen span of about 20 seconds Sunday night, viewers of the Academy Awards were exposed to an impromptu bit of sports-radio banter inspired by the faraway N.B.A.Yet it was the sort of back-and-forth, however brief, that makes the league truly uncomfortable.On what would soon become the most successful evening of Spike Lee’s professional life, Samuel L. Jackson announced from the Dolby Theater stage in Los Angeles that Lee’s beloved Knicks had beaten the San Antonio Spurs at Madison Square Garden to halt a franchise-record home losing streak at 18 consecutive defeats.Lee, who was moments away from winning his first competitive Oscar, appeared to mouth back to Jackson that the Knicks were “trying to tank” — N.B.A.-speak for teams that seek to improve their position in the draft as much as possible through rampant losing.Spike Lee: "WE'RE TRYING TO TANK" pic.twitter.com/zMXArdVPr0In truth, nothing the Knicks could do — even winning — could diminish the occasion for Lee. The Knicks’ most famous fan won the Oscar that had eluded him for more than 30 years and surely knew as well as anyone that one measly victory, even over the Spurs and their decorated coach, Gregg Popovich, wouldn’t knock the team too far off course in its shameless bid to finish at the bottom of the standings.But the exchange and ensuing waves of social media chatter shined the brightest of unwanted spotlights on a subject that N.B.A. officials undoubtedly wish would not have surfaced in this manner.For it is the public discourse that surrounds tanking — which inevitably leads to otherwise passionate fans like Lee openly wishing for their teams to lose — that has long been regarded at league headquarters as the most unsavory element of the practice.Tanking, in itself, can be a foolhardy strategy — especially in the wake of a procedural change this season. This is the first year since the inception of the N.B.A.’s draft lottery in 1985 that the teams holding the three lowest win totals will share flattened odds of 14 percent each of landing the No. 1 selection in June.Previously, the team with the worst record had a 25 percent chance of winning the top overall pick. But Commissioner Adam Silver’s push for so-called lottery reform has made it even tougher for the worst team in pro basketball — currently the Phoenix Suns, who, at 12-50, are a game behind the Knicks (12-48) — to win the right to (presumably) select the highly coveted Duke freshman Zion Williamson.If only there were clear measures to be taken to try to drown out the persistent tanking talk that seemingly (and loudly) swirls around every bad N.B.A. team. “Corrosive” is the word Silver used at his annual All-Star Weekend news conference in Charlotte, N.C., this month.“I personally don’t think it’s a winning strategy over the long term to engage in multiple years of rebuilding,” Silver said. “There’s a mind-set that, if you’re going to be bad, you might as well be really bad. I believe personally that’s corrosive for those organizations.”The Philadelphia 76ers are the rare franchise in position to differ. They amassed a load of lottery picks and other trade assets across a three-year window of intentional losing during the polarizing reign of their former general manager Sam Hinkie, who stepped down in April 2016 in response to a reduction in his authority over basketball matters before having the chance to reap the full benefits of all his team’s futility.Several of Hinkie’s high-profile draftees — Jahlil Okafor, Nerlens Noel and Dario Saric — fell well short of becoming the sort of fulcrums teams build around. Ditto for the 2017 No. 1 overall pick Markelle Fultz, who was drafted by Bryan Colangelo, Hinkie’s initial replacement. But the two selections who did become franchise players — Joel Embiid (by Hinkie) and Ben Simmons (two months after Hinkie’s exit) — now find themselves flanked by the former All-Star Jimmy Butler and a potential future All-Star in Tobias Harris. Butler and Harris arrived via trades that the Sixers’ new general manager, Elton Brand, was able to swing this season on the strength of the various trade chips Philadelphia had stockpiled under Hinkie.It is too early to say whether Silver’s lottery-reform crusade will actually quell further tanking attempts from teams pondering the Philadelphia model, but it has a chance. The flattened odds of winning the lottery mean that the Suns, Knicks and Cleveland Cavaliers, who currently comprise the bottom three teams, all face a daunting 86 percent chance that someone else wins the Zion Sweepstakes when the lottery is held May 14.One can safely assume that Lee and countless other Knicks fans will be shouting less flattering things as opposed to just mouthing them if all this losing they have endured this season leads to drafting someone other than Williamson.Since the Knicks are now linked with the 1993-94 Dallas Mavericks, having narrowly avoided breaking that team’s league record of 19 straight home losses with that unexpected triumph over San Antonio on Sunday, it is worth remembering what happened to the Mavericks that season.With Jamal Mashburn as their star rookie rather than Chris Webber or Penny Hardaway, after the Mavericks fell to the No. 4 overall pick the previous off-season despite boasting the highest odds of winning the draft lottery, they posted a 13-69 record.That is the type of cautionary tale that Silver, even as tanking talk persists, can forever serve up to discourage actual tanking: In the 34-year history of the lottery, only eight times has the team with the worst record managed to win the No. 1 pick.At least one Knicks fan in Hollywood finds the idea of tanking in professional sports to be “a horrible thing to even think about.” The actor Leon Robinson, who starred in “Above the Rim” and “Cool Runnings” and has made numerous appearances at The Garden this season, said in a phone interview Monday: “I’m never happy to see my team lose. I’m in The Garden — people go crazy every time they even get close to winning. Every time they’re losing, people are shaking their heads at halftime. So I’m confused. Why are you coming to the game?”Lee, however, is hardly alone in lusting after Williamson. It’s an open secret that the Knicks are dreaming of a mammoth free-agent coup this summer with the more than $70 million of salary-cap space they can clear; Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving are widely regarded as the Knicks’ top two targets. But make no mistake: The Knicks themselves, not just a segment of the fan base, are dreaming of Zion, too — no matter what history says.Given the immediate on-court impact one extremely gifted young man can have, in this five-on-five sport more than any other, it will probably always be thus.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points. At age 39, he became the oldest player ever to reach 50 in an NBA game.Heat 122, 76ers 99Dwyane Wade, playing the final home game of his NBA career, scored 30 points to lead Miami over Philadelphia.Wade made 10 of 23 shots, including 4 of 10 on attempts from beyond the arc. It was his second-highest scoring game of the season. But it was a bittersweet night for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention earlier in the evening when the Detroit Pistons rallied from a 22-point deficit to defeat the Memphis Grizzlies.Philadelphia, which has already clinched the third seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs, rested two of its stars: Joel Embiid, who was listed as having a knee injury, and JJ Redick (back).Warriors 112, Pelicans 103DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds against his former team as visiting Golden State defeated New Orleans.After clinching home-court advantage throughout the Western Conference playoffs on Sunday, the Warriors had Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson, Andre Iguodala and Andrew Bogut among their inactive players. Stephen Curry left for game after scoring five points in nine minutes in what the Warriors called "a precaution" after he sustained a mild foot sprain.Jahlil Okafor scored 30 points to lead the short-handed Pelicans, who dressed just eight players and finished the season 33-49.Raptors 120, Timberwolves 100Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points as visiting Toronto completed its regular-season schedule with a victory over Minnesota.The Raptors (58-24) secured the second-best record in the Eastern Conference with the win, behind only the Milwaukee Bucks (60-21), who play their final game Wednesday.Fred VanVleet added 16 points for the Raptors, Chris Boucher added career bests with 15 points and 13 rebounds, and Pascal Siakam and Norman Powell each scored 10 points. Gorgui Dieng and Andrew Wiggins each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves.Jazz 118, Nuggets 108Donovan Mitchell matched his career best of 46 points, and Utah posted a victory over Denver in Salt Lake City.Rudy Gobert added 20 points and 10 rebounds as Utah notched its ninth straight home win against Denver. Utah locked up the No. 5 seed for the Western Conference playoffs.Malik Beasley scored 25 points on 9-of-13 shooting for the Nuggets, who have lost four of their past six games and are a half-game ahead of Houston after the Rockets fell to the Oklahoma City Thunder on Tuesday.Trail Blazers 104, Lakers 101Instead of quietly sneaking into the offseason after losing its season finale to playoff-bound Portland, Los Angeles made some noise when Magic Johnson announced his resignation as president of basketball operations for the team.The game still meant something for Portland, though, and the Trail Blazers clinched home-court advantage in the first round of the Western Conference playoffs when Maurice Harkless made a 3-pointer at the buzzer for a win. The Trail Blazers can overtake the Rockets on a tiebreaker to finish third in the West with a win against the visiting Sacramento Kings on Wednesday.Harkless, who left the previous game with left hip tightness, finished with 26 points. Kentavious Caldwell-Pope had 32 points and eight assists for the Lakers, who finished with 37 wins -- two more than last season.Thunder 112, Rockets 111Russell Westbrook scored 29 points, but it was Paul George's corner 3-pointer with 1.8 seconds left that sent Oklahoma City to a home win over Houston.Oklahoma City trailed by 14 early in the fourth quarter and by four in the final minute before Westbrook's and George's heroics.James Harden made his first 12 free throws in the game but with less than 10 seconds left and Houston on top 111-109, he missed one, giving the Thunder a chance to tie or take the lead. Westbrook barreled up the court, briefly handing the ball off to Steven Adams near midcourt before getting the ball and firing it to George in the corner for what proved to be the game-winner.Celtics 116, Wizards 100Terry Rozier led seven Boston players in double figures with 21 points as his team closed out the regular season with a win over host Washington.The Celtics rallied from a 13-point, third-quarter deficit for their sixth win in eight games. Boston, which played without Marcus Smart, Jayson Tatum, Kyrie Irving, Al Horford, Marcus Morris, Aron Baynes and Gordon Hayward, will be the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs.Semi Ojeleye, Brad Wanamaker and RJ Hunter had 17 points apiece for Boston, which outscored Washington 27-15 in the fourth quarter. Tomas Satoransky led the Wizards with 19 points, and Bradley Beal scored 16 points in 16 minutes. Beal became the first person in franchise history to finish a season averaging at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists per game.Pistons 100, Grizzlies 93Andre Drummond scored 20 points and grabbed 17 rebounds, and Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to defeat visiting Memphis.Despite winning, the Pistons were unable to clinch the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. The Charlotte Hornets beat the Cleveland Cavaliers and remain one game behind Detroit heading into Wednesday night's final regular-season games. The Pistons finish against the Knicks at New York while the Hornets host the Orlando Magic.The Pistons, who trailed by 22 in the second quarter, climbed all the way back and took an 85-83 lead on Ish Smith's jumper just moments after his 3-pointer tied the score at 83-all. Smith finished with 22 points off the bench, and Luke Kennard added 15 for Detroit.Hornets 124, Cavaliers 97Kemba Walker and Jeremy Lamb scored 23 points apiece, and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive with a victory over host Cleveland.The Hornets led by 12 points in the first half and then pushed the lead all the way to 27 in the fourth quarter, winning their fourth straight and eighth in their past 11 games. They hit a season-high 22 3-pointers on 44 attempts and shot 57.7 percent from the field.Miles Bridges and Dwayne Bacon added 18 points apiece for the Hornets. Frank Kaminsky scored 14 and Devonte Graham had 10. Collin Sexton led the Cavs with 18 points.Knicks 96, Bulls 86Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points and Kevin Knox and Luke Kornet each notched double-doubles to lead New York past host Chicago.Knox had 17 points and 10 rebounds, Kornet chipped in 12 points and 13 rebounds and Damyean Dotson added 12 points for the Knicks (17-64), who are already assured of the NBA's worst record this season. They can do no worse than tie the franchise record for fewest wins in a regular season, set in 2014-15.The Bulls closed the home portion of their schedule with a 9-32 record, setting a franchise record for home futility. The 2000-01 team held the previous club standard for fewest home victories with 10.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideAs Nets guard Joe Harris walks the cobblestone streets outside the team’s practice facility in Sunset Park, no one seems to notice.“Most of the time, I blend in,” he said. “I kind of look like I work in a Brooklyn coffee shop.”Harris’s journey from unemployed castoff to indispensable starter mirrors the rise of the Nets, a team reconstructed through savvy draft picks and second-chance signings. Without a marquee star, the Nets have won 19 of their last 25 games, and they are on a six-game winning streak against opponents in the stronger Western Conference.The Nets had 28 victories last season; now, despite a loss in Boston on Monday, they have the sixth-best record in the Eastern Conference (27-24), and playoff talk is brewing. The injury-riddled team has weathered the loss of Caris LeVert, out with a foot injury since November, and now is without Spencer Dinwiddie, a strong candidate for the Sixth Man of the Year Award, who may be out until mid-March with a thumb injury. In Dinwiddie’s absence, the next-man-up Nets will look to G League call-ups and increased scoring from everyone.“I almost look at Joe as one of the poster boys for the Brooklyn Nets,” the veteran DeMarre Carroll said. “He came in, wasn’t really guaranteed his first year, got on the team, worked his butt off. Each year, he’s gotten better; his numbers, his play, his confidence proves it.”Three years ago, Harris, then with the Cleveland Cavaliers, had the worst day of his basketball life. In a period of a few hours, he had foot surgery, was traded to Orlando and was immediately waived. He was out of the league for six months before the Nets signed him to a minimum contract for less than $1 million in 2016. Last summer, he signed a two-year, $16 million deal to remain with the Nets.“His story is about opportunity and development on a team starting to improve,” Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “Given where he came from, it’s a romantic story, a beautiful story. Everything about him — his humility, the fact that he rides the subway everywhere — is why everybody loves Joe.”Harris’s romance with the game began in Chelan, Wash., where his father coached high school basketball. In fourth grade, Harris came home one afternoon and asked his mother if he could write his basketball goals on his bedroom walls. She assumed he would scribble them on paper and tape them up. Instead, he took a marker and wrote directly on the walls and ceiling. The writings remain in his childhood bedroom, frozen in the amber of a 9-year-old’s penmanship.Given that Chelan is a small town with only two gyms, the worst time of the year was when the courts were being refinished, leaving Harris nowhere to play. One time after an interminable wait, a 10-year-old Harris ran onto the court, slid on his stomach and kissed the floor. “Baby, I’m back!” he screamed.“That pretty much sums me up as a kid,” Harris said. “I just love basketball.”To the right of his childhood bed is his favorite quotation from John Wooden, which he easily recites from memory: “Success is a peace of mind which is a direct result of self-satisfaction in knowing that you did your best to become the best you are capable of becoming.”There are also lines from Charles Barkley, Julius Erving, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Larry Bird and others, as well as a list of goals. The last goal on the list: “Become a pro.”After playing four years at Virginia, Harris was drafted in the second round by Cleveland in 2014. He played sparingly for two seasons on the LeBron James-led Cavaliers. A few months after he was released, he watched Cleveland win its first N.B.A. title.This season, Harris was averaging 13.4 points a game through Sunday and had the third-best 3-point shooting percentage in the N.B.A. (46.8 percent). Among players with at least 300 field-goal attempts this season, he was eighth at 61.4 in effective field-goal percentage, trailing only Golden State’s Stephen Curry (62.1) among guards and wing players, according to Basketball-Reference.com.“We want him to shoot more bad shots because he’s such a great shooter, but he won’t because he’s such a good guy,” Atkinson said.The pace-and-space era of the N.B.A. has made a player like Harris, a sharpshooter who creates space on the floor and strikes when opportunity arises, more valuable.“The game has slowed down for him,” Atkinson said. “His first two years he was making turnovers, not reading situations right. He used to be a defensive liability, and now we put him sometimes on the best shooter.“I’m pleased that he’s played beyond his contract. For a guy who wasn’t even in the league, he became a stalwart, a guy you can count on.”Casual sports fans may struggle to name a player on the Nets, particularly one who is a regular … well, Joe. The team shot an amusing video spoofing Harris’s accuracy in hopes of earning him a spot in the All-Star 3-point shooting contest.Harris visited spots around Brooklyn — he tossed oranges into a shopping cart, lofted eggs into a hot frying pan and shot some coins into a tip jar.“Joey Buckets! He deserves to be in the contest,” Carroll said when asked about his teammate. Throughout games, Harris is serenaded — “Jo-ey Buck-ets” — by the superfans in the Brooklyn Brigade section of Barclays Center. It’s one of many nicknames. Others include Lumber Joe and Beef Jerky Joe.Beef Jerky Joe? “Like the Sasquatch from the commercial,” Harris said with a laugh.Though Harris has blended into Brooklyn, in truth he is an accidental hipster. On a walk to the Food Hall at the Industry City development in Sunset Park, he was wearing black because it just happens to be the Nets’ team color. His slightly slouchy knit cap was pulled low to fight the chilly gusts from the Brooklyn waterfront. The lumberjack beard was a remnant of a no-shave off-season.Every Nets player except Jared Dudley lives in Brooklyn, a throwback to when the Dodgers were Brooklyn’s team and the players raised their children in the borough and car-pooled to Ebbets Field.Harris walks to Barclays Center on game days. After practices, Atkinson frequently sees him with his backpack, headed to the subway.“He signed a big contract; you’d think he’d get a car service,” Atkinson said. “But that’s him, and that’s us. We’ve had a little success, but we’re still humble.”In the Food Hall, there’s everything a local might expect, like Korean comfort food and an all-avocado restaurant. Harris stopped for a cup of … well, you know. Not a nitro, cold brew or pour over, mind you.“How do you like it?” the barista asked Harris.“Black,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaDENVER — The Denver Nuggets’ worst loss of the season was less than 48 hours old when Tim Connelly, the team’s president of basketball operations, found himself courtside before a game against the Chicago Bulls assessing some lessons of the defeat.“A loss is never a positive,” Connelly said, “but we have to be realistic about where we stand. We’ve done nothing, and that team has done everything several times over.”He was referring to the Golden State Warriors, a superstar collective that has demolished its share of opponents in recent years. But what the Warriors did to the Nuggets one night last week was particularly gruesome, in part because Denver had entered the game with a slim lead over Golden State in the N.B.A.’s Western Conference standings.But then, on Jan. 15, in front of a briefly enthusiastic crowd here, the Warriors scored 51 points in the first quarter and sailed to a 142-111 victory that sent a message to everyone on the opposing bench, inside the building and across the league: We are not going anywhere.It was, for one night at least, illustrative of the gulf that still exists between the Warriors and the rest of the N.B.A. While Golden State’s dominance had led many to despair, the Nuggets entered the game ahead in the standings and hopeful that they were bridging the gap. They came out of it understanding that there is still work to be done.“We got a little comfortable,” Nuggets forward Paul Millsap said. “It was a humbling experience for us.”Still, these are heady times for the Nuggets. They are a colorful crew led by Nikola Jokic, a 23-year-old center from Serbia and former second-round pick who facilitates the offense from the high post. In a league full of chiseled gods, Jokic has the dimensions of a melting iceberg. But at 7 feet and 250 pounds, he is a gifted passer and scorer, and he appears bound for his first All-Star Game.His background — unsung prospect, semi-overlooked — is representative of the roster as a whole. Just one player in the team’s regular rotation, the 21-year-old point guard Jamal Murray, was a top-10 lottery pick.Consider Torrey Craig, a 28-year-old forward who has become a full-time starter. Craig went undrafted out of South Carolina Upstate and was plying his trade for the Gold Coast Rollers of the Queensland Basketball League, a semipro circuit in Australia, before he signed a two-way deal with the Nuggets in 2017.“It makes us all dogs,” the shooting guard Malik Beasley said, “because we’ve been underrated our whole lives.”Millsap, 33 and a former second-round pick himself, sees similarities between the Nuggets and one of his former teams, the Atlanta Hawks, a team with little star power that still finished with the best record in the East in 2015.“Egoless guys,” Millsap said. “Guys who don’t care about getting the credit. Guys who go out there and play the game the right way, and I think that’s where these two teams are very similar. I do think this team is a lot more talented than that team. But that team used every inch of talent and every inch of ability to get things done.”Left unsaid: The Nuggets are not using every inch of their talent — not yet, anyway. In the jargon of the game, they have untapped potential, and this is understandable. The Nuggets are as inexperienced as they are precocious. Seven of the team’s top 11 players right now are 24 or younger, and that does not even include Michael Porter Jr., a 20-year-old forward and the 14th pick of the 2018 draft who is not expected to play this season after undergoing back surgery.Coach Michael Malone has consistently praised his players’ work ethic — effort, he said, is not a problem — but he does want them to be more diligent about their mental preparation.“Know who the hell you’re guarding,” Malone said, adding: “I think the guys on our roster — most teams probably have this issue, where they show up to the game, like, ‘Who are we playing tonight?’ And they haven’t done their work, which to me is like a cardinal sin. So we have to do a better job of understanding: Who am I playing? What are his tendencies? And how can I take those away?”In the locker room before the Bulls game, Malone reiterated how much work his staff puts into scouting reports before asking his players what they planned to offer that night in return. Jokic, Malone later recalled, told him he would be aggressive. Murray said he would play hard. As far as pregame chalk talks go, it was boilerplate stuff. But the conversation had added import given the events of the week.“This is part of our journey,” Malone said.Malone got a keener sense of that process from 2011 to 2013, as an assistant with the Warriors under Mark Jackson when Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson were young players learning how to be pros. The Warriors went 23-43 in a lockout-shortened season. But by the 2012-13 season, Curry and Thompson were forming winning habits. Malone recalled a seven-game road trip when the Warriors went 6-1, with their only loss coming against the Orlando Magic after the team spent an extra night in Miami (and perhaps that was no coincidence). But the trip was otherwise an unqualified success.“I think that’s when we, as a team and as an organization said, ‘Man, we have a chance to be pretty good,’ ” he said.The Nuggets have had moments like that this season — beating the Raptors in Toronto on Dec. 3 was a big deal — but they still have a lot of work ahead, Malone said.“We’re a young team that is trying to become a playoff team, and once you become a playoff team, you hope to become a championship team,” Malone said. “You can’t skip steps.”Since Malone was hired by the Nuggets in 2015, they have improved each season, from 33 wins in 2015-16, to 40 wins in 2016-17, to 46 wins last season, when they narrowly missed the playoffs. Malone signed a two-year extension over the summer, and the Nuggets are now on a pace to win 56 games. Their last playoff appearance came in 2013.No less an eminence than Kevin Durant, who, to be fair, joined the Warriors a year after they had won their first championship of the Curry/Thompson era, praised the Nuggets organization.“Continuity,” Durant said. “You don’t fire your coach after a losing season. You’re patient with him. You’re patient with your young players. You let them make mistakes, let them grow.”In the wake of Denver’s loss to the Warriors last week, Malone was pleased to see a renewed commitment to defense in wins over the Bulls and the Cleveland Cavaliers. It was already clear that the team’s loss to Golden State had been something of a formative experience.“It was probably the best thing that could have happened to us,” Millsap said.Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLittle Caesars Arena in Detroit will finally host its first playoff game — in what is probably the last chance the Pistons have to make their series against Milwaukee competitive."Let's make it hard on them," Detroit coach Dwane Casey said. "Let's make it a home atmosphere, because we need everything."The Milwaukee-Detroit matchup is one of two series shifting sites Saturday. Houston and Utah will also play Game 3 in Salt Lake City. There are a couple Game 4s on tap as well: Philadelphia at Brooklyn, and Denver at San Antonio.The Pistons are in their second season at their new arena, but even after moving downtown, they've had their share of small, dreary crowds — similar to the atmosphere during their final years at The Palace of Auburn Hills. But there's every reason to expect a more charged scene Saturday night. Little Caesars Arena has hosted the NCAA and Horizon League tournaments in basketball, but there have been no home playoff games yet for the Pistons — or for the Red Wings, who also play there."I hope we're building trust with our fans by getting the first step of getting into the playoffs, because we have some great, knowledgeable basketball fans here in Detroit," Casey said. "We've got to make sure we come out and represent them, but we need all them to come out the way they treated us in Milwaukee — like we stole something."The Pistons were drubbed in the series opener 121-86. They played better in Game 2, even leading at halftime, but they still lost 120-99 to the top-seeded Bucks.Houston is also up 2-0 in its series against Utah. James Harden is coming off a triple-double of 32 points, 13 rebounds and 10 assists Wednesday night. The Rockets won the first two games by a combined 52 points.Philadelphia leads Brooklyn 2-1 after winning on the road Thursday night. The 76ers were held to 102 points in a Game 1 loss but have been impressive since, winning 145-123 in Game 2 and then 131-115 on Thursday . Tobias Harris made all six of his 3-point attempts in Game 3.San Antonio took a 2-1 lead over Denver with a 118-108 victory in Game 3. Derrick White scored a career-high 36 points.A look at Saturday's games:76ERS AT NETS76ers lead, 2-1. Game 4, 3 p.m. EDT, TNT.NEED TO KNOW: Philadelphia coach Brett Brown isn't sure if Joel Embiid will play, but the 76ers were just fine without their All-Star center in Game 3.KEEP AN EYE ON: Brooklyn's lineup combinations. D'Angelo Russell, Spencer Dinwiddie and Caris LeVert all had big games when the Nets won the opener, so coach Kenny Atkinson needs to figure out how much he can get his best ball handlers on the floor for more time, while still being able to rebound and defend against a much bigger lineup.INJURY WATCH: Embiid worked out Friday at practice but Brown said he didn't have a gut feeling either way whether Embiid's left knee would feel well enough for him to play. The Sixers have depth behind him with Greg Monroe and Boban Marjanovic, who combined for 23 points and 21 rebounds in Game 3."It's not a knock on anyone else, but there is a significant drop-off when you take an All-NBA player out of the lineup," guard JJ Redick said.PRESSURE IS ON: Joe Harris. Brooklyn's guard led the NBA in 3-point percentage during the regular season but was 0 for 4 behind the arc in Game 3. He also struggled to stay close to Redick on defense, and Redick responded with five 3s and 26 points. The Nets need Harris to be better on both ends.NUGGETS AT SPURSSpurs lead, 2-1. Game 4, 5:30 p.m. EDT, TNT.NEED TO KNOW: Denver has won only six of its last 37 road games in the playoffs, and three of those came during the 2008-09 season, when the Nuggets reached the conference finals. That's the only time Denver made it past the first round in its last 11 postseason appearances. On the road against San Antonio specifically, the Nuggets have lost four straight playoff games and 13 straight regular-season games.KEEP AN EYE ON: Denver was second in the NBA with 11.9 offensive rebounds per game during the regular season, but San Antonio has bested the Nuggets in that category during this series. The Spurs have 36 offensive rebounds through three games, and Denver has 30.MARQUEE MATCHUP: White had a big game for the Spurs in Game 3, but Denver's Jamal Murray finished Game 2 with a flourish, scoring 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter.PRESSURE IS ON: Nikola Jokic has averaged 17.7 points in the series, which certainly isn't bad. But with Denver on the road and trying to avoid a 3-1 deficit in the series, the Nuggets' 7-footer will be on the spot.BUCKS AT PISTONSBucks lead, 2-0. Game 3, 8 p.m. EDT, ESPN.NEED TO KNOW: Detroit has lost 12 straight playoff games dating to 2008.KEEP AN EYE ON: Pat Connaughton scored 28 points for Milwaukee over the first two games, shooting 12 of 16 from the field. It's hard enough to beat the Bucks when Giannis Antetokounmpo and Eric Bledsoe are rolling, but if players like Connaughton are making major contributions, these games can become blowouts.INJURY WATCH: Pistons star Blake Griffin missed the first two games of the series with knee issues.PRESSURE IS ON: Detroit picked up Thon Maker in a trade this season, and he could be an intriguing player for the Pistons in the future, but Griffin's injury has forced him to play an important role in this series, and he has only 10 points so far. He went 0 for 9 from 3-point range over the first two games.ROCKETS AT JAZZRockets lead, 2-0. Game 3, 10:30 p.m. EDT, ESPN.NEED TO KNOW: The series has been surprisingly uncompetitive thus far, with Houston leading by at least 17 points throughout the second half of its victory in Game 2, after leading by double digits for the entire fourth quarter of the opener.KEEP AN EYE ON: Harden's playmaking. Harden is getting everyone involved, with 10 assists in both games after he managed just 4.8 per game against Utah during the regular season.TELLS THE STORY: Utah held opponents to an EFG% of 50.7 during the regular season, the second-best defensive mark in the league in that category. In this series, Houston is all the way up at 58.3 against the Jazz.PRESSURE IS ON: Utah's offense. Even a defense as tough as Utah's isn't going to stop Houston entirely, so the Jazz have to find a way to cobble together more points.___Follow Noah Trister at www.Twitter.com/noahtrister___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTiger Woods' win at the Masters is still a hot topic. PodcastOne Sports Now hosts Jim Litke and Tim Dahlberg look back at the memorable moment that transcended the sports world. Litke and Dahlberg also discuss what Woods may do next for his career and the sport with AP Golf Writer Doug Ferguson, who was honored last week for receiving the PGA Lifetime Achievement Award in Journalism.Guest host Larry Lage catches up with Mike Tirico of NBC Sports after he filled in as an announcer at the Masters for Westwood One Radio. Jemele Hill, a staff writer for The Atlantic and host of "Jemele Hill is Unbothered," shares her thoughts on Woods' comeback and the essay Kyle Korver of the Utah Jazz recently wrote about white privilege for The Players' Tribune.ESPN analyst Chauncey Billups wraps up the weekly podcast, talking about his admiration for Woods. The 2004 NBA champion also breaks down the NBA playoffs, recalls being part of the infamous brawl involving the Detroit Pistons, Indiana Pacers and fans nearly 15 years ago and says he wants to be an NBA general manager.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Phoenix Suns officially named James Jones as general manager Thursday, giving him control over all basketball operations for the team.The Suns also added Jeff Bower as senior vice president of basketball operations and retained Trevor Bukstein as assistant general manager. Both will report to Jones, the team said in a statement.Jones, 38, who played 14 seasons in the league and won three NBA championships, had served as Phoenix's VP of basketball operations the last two seasons. He shared GM duties this past season with Bukstein."James has demonstrated a remarkable ability to manage the day-to-day efforts of our front office while developing strong relationships with our players, coaches and those across our organization and league," said Suns managing partner Robert Sarver in a statement."Furthermore, he is instilling the same championship culture and standard that he experienced on multiple occasions as a player. I have the utmost confidence in James as the leader of our basketball operations moving forward, and we are aligned in the ultimate goal of one day bringing an NBA championship to Phoenix."The Suns had been without a full-time general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.Phoenix finished the season with a 19-63 record.Bower, 57, was general manager of the Detroit Pistons from 2014-18. He previously served two terms as GM of the Charlotte/New Orleans Hornets from 2001-03 and 2005-10."I'm thrilled to add an individual with Jeff's experience and basketball acumen to our front office," Jones said. "Jeff brings a wealth of knowledge in every facet of basketball operations, is of high character and well respected in league circles, and has a proven track record of influencing organizational success. His expertise in creating and executing a plan will be invaluable as we build our team moving forward."Bukstein has been an assistant GM with the Suns since 2013.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLarry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed Thursday to part ways."We have great respect and appreciation for Larry and the job that he did as the head coach of the Cavaliers for nearly the entire 2018-19 campaign," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "He brought professionalism, class and steady leadership both this past season and prior four years."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role. Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers. All of us in Cleveland wish Larry nothing but the best going forward."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first, before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.Drew, 61, previously was head coach of the Atlanta Hawks (2010-13) and Milwaukee Bucks (2013-14), and joined the Cavaliers initially as an assistant coach in 2014, then as the associate head coach. While there, the Cavaliers won their first NBA title during the 2015-16 season. He has been an assistant coach in the NBA for 23 seasons.Drew went 8-1 as fill-in coach in the 2017-18 season while Lue was on a medical leave to deal with anxiety issues."I want to thank Dan Gilbert, Koby Altman, the entire organization, and especially our fans, for what has been a very special and rewarding time here in Cleveland. Koby and I had a good discussion following the season and have both decided that the best decision for each of us was that I would not return to coach the team," said Drew, who was an NBA point guard from 1980-91, playing for the Detroit Pistons, Kansas City/Sacramento Kings, Los Angeles Clippers and Lakers."I am very proud of what we accomplished over the last several years together and will always cherish our Championship. I also want to commend our players this season for the bond that they established, the way they approached their jobs and the hard work and growth they had every day. I am very proud of them and wish them the best as they continue to develop for the future."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDETROIT — Andre Drummond had 20 points and 17 rebounds and Ish Smith matched a season high with 22 points, helping the Detroit Pistons come back from a 22-point deficit to beat the Memphis Grizzlies 100-93 Tuesday night and cling to a spot in the playoffs.Detroit can clinch a postseason bid by closing the regular season with a win Wednesday night at New York.The Pistons put their postseason position in peril by losing four straight before rallying to beat the short-handed Grizzlies.Detroit star Blake Griffin was limited to five points and two rebounds in 18-plus minutes, barely playing in the second half because of his injured left knee.Luke Kennard scored 15 points off the bench and Reggie Jackson had 12 points before going to the bench as Smith flourished in the final quarter.Detroit opened the fourth with a 16-3 run to pull within three points. Smith made a game-tying 3-pointer and a go-ahead jumper midway through the quarter.Drummond made two free throws with 2:33 left to put the Pistons up 91-89. Smith made a jumper to give Detroit a five-point lead with 50 seconds left and a runner to put it ahead 97-93 with 28 seconds remaining.Delon Wright and Bruno Caboclo each scored 15 points for the Grizzlies, who used just four reserves with banged-up players such as Mike Conley, Joakim Noah and rookie Jaren Jackson out with injuries.Even though Detroit had a lot to play for — its first playoff berth in three years and second in a decade — the Grizzlies played with more effort and led 32-20 after the first quarter and 57-38 at halftime.The Pistons picked up the intensity in the third quarter, outscoring Memphis by four to cut their deficit to 79-64.TIP-INSGrizzlies: Tyler Zeller fouled out midway through the fourth quarter with 13 points and six reboundsPistons: Team owner Tom Gores attended the game, cheering for his team and complaining about calls to officials. Gores hosted 40 college students as part of the Flint Promise scholarship program, which he has funded in part with $1 million.UP NEXTGrizzlies: Close regular season against Golden State on Wednesday.Pistons: End regular season at New York on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe NBA rescinded technical fouls assessed to Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant and Los Angeles Clippers forward JaMychal Green on Friday after reviewing a call made during Thursday night's game.Durant and Green were exchanging words during the third quarter when the double-technical was called, stunning both players.The decision to rescind was announced from the league's @NBAOfficial account on Twitter.The change was good for Durant, as he already received two technicals earlier in the series. An accumulation of seven technicals during the postseason carries an automatic one-game suspension. He had lobbied for the technicals to be rescinded after Thursday's 132-105 victory.--Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, who missed Game 3 of his team's first-round playoff series against the Brooklyn Nets on Thursday night because of left knee soreness, is listed as doubtful for Game 4 on Saturday. The NBA announced his status in its injury report.Embiid's status has digressed from the first three games when he was listed as questionable. He continues to deal with left knee tendinitis, a problem throughout the regular season, when he missed 14 of the Sixers' 24 games after the All-Star break.Despite Embiid's absence in Game 3, the visiting 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory over the host Nets to take a 2-1 lead. Greg Monroe started in Embiid's place and collected nine points on 4-for-13 shooting and grabbed 13 rebounds. Game 4 of the best-of-seven will also be played in Brooklyn before the series shifts to Philadelphia on Tuesday.--The status of Detroit Pistons forward Blake Griffin remains uncertain entering Saturday's Game 3 of the team's Eastern Conference first-round series against the Milwaukee Bucks.Griffin missed the first two games with a left knee injury, and coach Dwane Casey didn't shed any light on whether the six-time All-Star will return on Saturday for the eighth-seeded Pistons, who lost the first two games of the series in Milwaukee by an average of 28 points."Day-to-day. I'm not talking about Blake," Casey told reporters after Friday's practice. "Day-to-day. Same old words. Just like I am on coaching -- day-to-day."--Former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue was scheduled to interview with the Los Angeles Lakers for their head coaching vacancy, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.The Lakers fired coach Luke Walton last week after three seasons and a 98-148 record.Lue, who previously served as an assistant coach for the Boston Celtics, L.A. Clippers and Cavaliers, became head coach in Cleveland during the 2015-16 season after David Blatt was fired.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGiannis Antetokounmpo racked up 24 points, 17 rebounds and four assists in only 23 minutes as the top-seeded Milwaukee Bucks overwhelmed the visiting Detroit Pistons 121-86 in their Eastern Conference playoff opener on Sunday.George Hill had 16 points off the bench for the Bucks, who led by 27 at halftime. Eric Bledsoe scored 15 points, Brook Lopez and Khris Middleton had 14 apiece, and Sterling Brown added 11 along with a team-high seven assists.Pistons center Andre Drummond was ejected with 4:07 remaining in the third quarter for shoving Antetokounmpo to the floor. The two-handed push occurred after Antetokounmpo grabbed an offensive rebound. Drummond finished with 12 points and 12 rebounds.Luke Kennard's 21 points off the bench topped Detroit, which played without All-Star forward Blake Griffin. He was sidelined by a sore left knee, which also kept him out of four of the last seven regular-season games. The Bucks were without guards Malcolm Brogdon (foot) and Tony Snell (ankle).Trail Blazers 104, Thunder 99Damian Lillard scored 30 points as Portland held off visiting Oklahoma City to win the opener of their first-round playoff series.CJ McCollum added 24 points, and Enes Kanter contributed 20 points and 18 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who led by as many as 19 points in the first half. The lead shrunk to as few as three points in the fourth quarter, but Oklahoma City never had possession with a chance to tie.Paul George collected 26 points and 10 rebounds, and Russell Westbrook compiled 24 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists for the Thunder, who made only 5 of 33 3-point attempts in the game.Celtics 84, Pacers 74Boston held visiting Indiana without a field goal for the first 8 1/2 minutes of the second half, rallying from a halftime deficit for a victory in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.After failing to make even one-third of their shots in the first half while falling behind 45-38, the fourth-seeded Celtics became a defensive force in the third quarter. The Pacers, seeded fifth in the East, missed their first seven shots of the second half and mixed in three turnovers as their seven-point lead turned into a 47-45 deficit.Kyrie Irving and Marcus Morris scored 20 points apiece for Boston, which won handily despite shooting just 36.4 percent. Cory Joseph led Indiana with 14 points, and Bojan Bogdanovic had 12, as the Pacers shot 33.3 percent for the game overall.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Kennard scored 27 points off the bench and the postseason-bound Detroit Pistons closed out their regular season finale by walloping the host New York Knicks 115-89 on Wednesday.The Pistons (41-41) qualified for the Eastern Conference playoffs for just the second time since the 2009-10 season. They were swept by Cleveland in the opening round of the 2015-16 playoffs.Detroit will be the No. 8 seed and face top-seeded Milwaukee in the first round.Kennard's point total was one shy of his career high. Reggie Jackson had 21 points and Andre Drummond supplied 20 points and 18 rebounds for Detroit. Wayne Ellington tossed in 12 points, all on 3-point makes.Heat 113, Nets 94Dwyane Wade ended his storied career with a triple-double of 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists as visiting Miami was dealt a loss to Brooklyn, which clinched sixth place in the Eastern Conference.The Nets honored Wade with a video tribute in pregame introductions by highlighting some of his notable shots against them over the course of a 16-year career while the text on the screen read "Thanks for the Memories."With longtime friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony sitting courtside, Wade recorded his fifth career triple-double in his 1,054th regular-season game since entering the league as the fifth overall pick out of Marquette in 2003.Spurs 105, Mavericks 94LaMarcus Aldridge poured in 34 points and totaled 16 rebounds to help propel San Antonio to a resounding win over visiting Dallas in the regular-season finale for both teams.It was also the final game in the 21-year career of Dallas forward Dirk Nowitzki, who led Dallas with 20 points and pulled down 10 rebounds in 31 minutes of play before leaving the court for the final time with 47 seconds remaining.The win was San Antonio's third straight and -- combined with Oklahoma City's win over Milwaukee -- earned the Spurs the seventh seed in the NBA playoffs, where they will face the Denver Nuggets. Dallas, playing the second game of an emotional home-road back-to-back, had a two-game winning streak snapped and they will miss the postseason for the third straight season.Trail Blazers 136, Kings 131Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a season-high 37 points to lift Portland to a come-from-behind victory over visiting Sacramento.Skal Labissiere added 29 points and 15 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who trailed by as many as 28 points in the first half.Jake Layman, Meyers Leonard and Gary Trent Jr. scored 19 points apiece for Portland (53-29), which gained the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference and will face No. 6 Oklahoma City (49-33) in the first round of the playoffs.Nuggets 99, Timberwolves 95Jamal Murray hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 31.5 seconds left, and host Denver scored the final 15 points of the game to beat Minnesota to earn the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference.Nikola Jokic finished with 29 points and 14 rebounds and Murray scored 17 for Denver. The Nuggets (54-28) will play the San Antonio Spurs in the first round of the playoffs.Andrew Wiggins scored 25 points, Gorgui Dieng had 18 points and 11 rebounds and Cameron Reynolds added 19 points off the bench for the short-handed Timberwolves (36-46).Clippers 143, Jazz 137 (OT)With their respective playoff spots locked, Los Angeles and Utah ended their regular seasons in overtime, where the Clippers won to end a three-game losing streak.Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead the Clippers. Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Lou Williams scored 15 off the bench.Utah rookie Grayson Allen scored a career-high 40 points and Georges Niang scored a career-best 24 off the bench.Thunder 127, Bucks 116Dennis Schroder scored 32 points to help Oklahoma City earn the No. 6 seed in the Western Conference with a win at Milwaukee.The Bucks, who had already sealed the top seed in the Eastern Conference coming into the game, sat three starters -- Giannis Antetokounmpo, Eric Bledsoe and Brook Lopez -- to rest them for the playoffs.Milwaukee (60-22) will start the playoffs against the eighth-seeded Detroit Pistons (41-41). The Thunder (49-33) will open the playoffs against the third-seeded Portland Trail Blazers (53-29).Pacers 135, Hawks 134Edmond Sumner made three free throws with 0.3 seconds remaining to lift Indiana to a road win over Atlanta in the final regular-season game for both teams.Atlanta finished the season with a 29-53 record while Indiana (48-34) heads into the playoffs winners of only four of its last 13 games.The fifth-place Pacers will oppose the fourth-place Boston Celtics (49-33) in the first round of the Eastern Conference postseason.Magic 122, Hornets 114Terrence Ross came off the bench to score a season-high 35 points, and playoff-bound Orlando ended Charlotte's season.Ross scored 19 of his points in the first half, when the Magic led by as many as 13. He finished 12 of 19 from the field and 6 of 10 from 3-point range. Ross' performance overshadowed a 43-point explosion by Charlotte's Kemba Walker in the defeat.The Magic (42-40) remained the No. 7 seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs with the victory, and will face second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs.Grizzlies 132, Warriors 117Memphis dizzied visiting Golden State in the regular-season finale for both teams, parlaying a remarkable 86-point first half into a shocking win.The loss had no bearing on the playoff seeding for the Warriors (57-25). The two-time defending champions enter the postseason as the top seed in the Western Conference and they will open the playoffs against the No. 8 seed, the Los Angeles Clippers, who defeated the Utah Jazz, 143-137, in overtime Wednesday.The win allowed the Grizzlies (33-49) to avoid what would have been a second straight season of at least 50 losses. Rookie Jevon Carter scored 19 of his career-high 32 points in the first half, when the Grizzlies ran off to an 86-68 lead.76ers 125, Bulls 109Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points and Boban Marjanovic added 18 to lift host Philadelphia over Chicago.T.J. McConnell tied his career-high with 18, Zhaire Smith contributed 17 and Greg Monroe had 14 for the Sixers, who completed their regular season with a 51-31 record and the No. 3 playoff seed in the Eastern Conference. The Sixers finished 31-10 at home.The Sixers were extremely short-handed as numerous key players were held out for precautionary reasons as the playoffs are about to begin. All-Star center Joel Embiid, All-Star guard Ben Simmons, guard JJ Redick, forward Jimmy Butler and forward Tobias Harris were all held out.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDwyane Wade was hoping to extend his legendary career into at least four postseason games.Instead, Wade's career will end Wednesday night when the Heat visit the playoff-bound Brooklyn Nets, who can clinch the sixth seed in the Eastern Conference.Wade, 37, announced his retirement on Sept 16 before training camp began, and this season has been a farewell tour filled with a few magical moments and some postgame jersey exchanges.Despite the good feelings of celebrating Wade's storied career, which began as the No. 5 overall draft pick in 2003 and includes NBA championships in 2006, 2012 and 2013, the Heat were unable to do enough to reach the postseason this year.Miami was formally eliminated Tuesday night as Wade's career was celebrated in front of home fans for the final time. Wade scored 30 points in his first start of the season in a 122-99 rout of the Philadelphia 76ers, exited to a standing ovation in the final minute and exchanged jerseys with Jimmy Butler."I'm still just amazed, even after all these years," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "I've seen him go into his bag of tricks so many times and just compartmentalize. But I'm truly amazed that he was able to perform like that tonight."Wade's final moments in front of the home fans occurred after the Detroit Pistons (40-41) stormed back from a 22-point deficit to beat the Memphis Grizzlies and eliminate the Heat (39-42).Miami will miss the postseason for the third time in five seasons since LeBron James returned to Cleveland in 2014.The Heat were one game over .500 three times but only reached the .500 mark once since Jan. 27 and were done in by losing four straight before Tuesday.Brooklyn (41-40) will face either third-seeded Philadelphia or second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs. The Nets are even with Orlando but own the head-the-head tiebreaker and would finish sixth with a win or if the Magic lose Wednesday at Charlotte.The Nets are in this position because of what unfolded in a challenging road back-to-back set. After getting a five-point win at Milwaukee on Saturday, Brooklyn led most of the way and celebrated clinching a playoff berth with a 108-96 victory at Indiana on Sunday."To be honest, it is a big moment for us and a big moment for the organization, from where we've come from in the last couple of years, the improvement that we've had individually and collectively," Nets guard Joe Harris said at practice Tuesday. "Just to clinch a playoff spot, it's a big moment for the organization for sure, and we're all very happy. But at the same time, we still have Miami left to finish out the year the right way, and we still want to make some noise in the playoffs and make it competitive."By clinching Sunday, the Nets are in a position to rest players, and two may be out. DeMarre Carroll will sit out due to a sprained right wrist while Harris -- who leads the NBA in 3-point shooting percentage -- is questionable because of a sore right foot.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday. He compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.--The Lakers, meanwhile, received permission to discuss their opening for head coach with Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams, ESPN reported, citing league sources.The Lakers are focusing on Williams and former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue, and general manager Rob Pelinka plans to speak with each candidate in the near future, league sources told ESPN.After spending the previous two years in the San Antonio Spurs' front office following the death of his wife Ingrid in 2016, Williams got back into coaching as Brett Brown's top assistant with the 76ers.--The 76ers fined veteran center Amir Johnson an undisclosed amount for showing teammate Joel Embiid his cell phone on the bench late in a 111-102 loss to the Brooklyn Nets in Game 1 of their playoff series.TV cameras caught Johnson on the bench in the fourth quarter, when the 76ers were 16 points down and he was scrolling through his phone. After showing Embiid something on his phone, Johnson put it into the pocket of his warm-ups."I apologize for having my phone on the bench in today's game," Johnson said in a statement released hours after the game by the 76ers. "I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions. I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."--Milwaukee Bucks forward Nikola Mirotic is expected to return from a thumb injury to play in Game 1 of the first-round series against the Detroit Pistons on Sunday.Mirotic missed the final 11 games of the regular season after fracturing his left thumb during a March 19 game against the Los Angeles Lakers.Mirotic fully participated in Friday's practice and took part in Saturday's non-contact practice. He had his thumb taped during both workouts.--The Washington Wizards announced they will not make a qualifying offer to free agent forward Devin Robinson after he was apparently arrested late Friday."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend a qualifying offer to him for the 2019-20 season," it read.According to Washington Post reporter Candace Buckner, who covers the Wizards, Robinson was involved in an altercation with Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills at a nightclub.--Toronto Raptors forward OG Anunoby could be sidelined until the Eastern Conference finals, should the team make it that far, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.Anunoby underwent an emergency appendectomy on Thursday.The second-year player, who is a key reserve for the Raptors, scored 7.0 points per game this season with an average of 2.9 rebounds. He played in 67 games this season, starting six of them, a year after he started 62 games as a rookie from Indiana.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHere are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGiannis Antetokounmpo racked up 24 points, 17 rebounds and four assists in only 23 minutes as the top-seeded Milwaukee Bucks overwhelmed the visiting Detroit Pistons 121-86 in their Eastern Conference playoff opener on Sunday.George Hill had 16 points off the bench for the Bucks, who led by 27 at halftime. Eric Bledsoe scored 15 points, Brook Lopez and Khris Middleton had 14 apiece, and Sterling Brown added 11 along with a team-high seven assists.Pistons center Andre Drummond was ejected with 4:07 remaining in the third quarter for shoving Antetokounmpo to the floor. The two-handed push occurred after Antetokounmpo grabbed an offensive rebound. Drummond finished with 12 points and 12 rebounds.Luke Kennard's 21 points off the bench topped Detroit, which played without All-Star forward Blake Griffin. He was sidelined by a sore left knee, which also kept him out of four of the last seven regular-season games. The Bucks were without guards Malcolm Brogdon (foot) and Tony Snell (ankle).Rockets 122, Jazz 90James Harden and Clint Capela posted double-doubles, and Houston rolled to a victory in Game 1 of its first-round series with visiting Utah.Harden paired 29 points with 10 assists and finished two rebounds shy of a triple-double to fuel the Rockets to a 1-0 series lead. Capela added 16 points and 12 rebounds while grappling with Jazz center Rudy Gobert (22 points, 12 rebounds).Houston made headway by holding its own on the glass and defending with vigor, limiting Utah guard Donovan Mitchell to 19 points on 7-of-18 shooting and the Jazz to 39.0 percent shooting. Utah finished just 7-for-27 on 3-pointers and committed 19 turnovers.Trail Blazers 104, Thunder 99Damian Lillard scored 30 points as Portland held off visiting Oklahoma City to win the opener of their first-round playoff series.CJ McCollum added 24 points, and Enes Kanter contributed 20 points and 18 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who led by as many as 19 points in the first half. The lead shrunk to as few as three points in the fourth quarter, but Oklahoma City never had possession with a chance to tie.Paul George collected 26 points and 10 rebounds, and Russell Westbrook compiled 24 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists for the Thunder, who made only 5 of 33 3-point attempts in the game.Celtics 84, Pacers 74Boston held visiting Indiana without a field goal for the first 8 1/2 minutes of the second half, rallying from a halftime deficit for a victory in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.After failing to make even one-third of their shots in the first half while falling behind 45-38, the fourth-seeded Celtics became a defensive force in the third quarter. The Pacers, seeded fifth in the East, missed their first seven shots of the second half and mixed in three turnovers as their seven-point lead turned into a 47-45 deficit.Kyrie Irving and Marcus Morris scored 20 points apiece for Boston, which won handily despite shooting just 36.4 percent. Cory Joseph led Indiana with 14 points, and Bojan Bogdanovic had 12, as the Pacers shot 33.3 percent for the game overall.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanIn what could be a major blow to the upstart Nets, Spencer Dinwiddie, who has dominated in a bench role this season, could miss significant time with a right thumb injury.A serious contender for the N.B.A.’s Sixth Man of the Year Award, Dinwiddie, a fifth-year guard, has averaged 17.2 points and 5.0 assists a game, regularly coming through in big moments for the Nets, one of the most surprising teams in the N.B.A.The news of Dinwiddie’s injury was first reported by Caron Butler, a former N.B.A. star who began working for Fox Sports Radio shortly after announcing his retirement last February, rather than by the team or a reporter.Brooklyn Nets All star in the making Spencer Dinwiddie has had his hand examined one of the top hand specialist in the country. He has torn ligaments in his finger He will get two other evaluations to confirm the diagnosis before a decision is made about further action ..The injury was then confirmed by the Nets, with the team saying more information would be provided once the diagnosis had been completed.[The Nets Are Looking Really Good, Even From London]Dinwiddie, 25, was a second-round pick of the Detroit Pistons in 2015, but after failing to catch on in stints with the Pistons and the Chicago Bulls — and after several stints in the N.B.A.’s development league — he signed with the Nets as a free agent in December 2016.His first season in Brooklyn was fairly uneventful, with an average of 7.3 points a game in a bench role, but last season was thrust into a starting role as a result of injuries to D’Angelo Russell and Jeremy Lin, and he thrived with career-high averages of 12.6 points and 6.6 assists.He came into this season still unsure of his future, talking openly about feeling a lack of security with his place on the team, but he blossomed as the team’s first man off the bench, essentially alternating big games with Russell and serving as his team’s closer in tight games. Ten times this season he has scored 25 or more points off the bench, with his high mark coming on Dec. 12 when he poured in 39 in a win over the Philadelphia 76ers.Dinwiddie’s play has generated some buzz around a potential All-Star appearance. More important, it inspired the team to sign him to a three-year, $34 million contract extension in December.The Nets are already without the team’s second-leading scorer, Caris LeVert, who dislocated his right foot in November. The team has not announced a timetable for Dinwiddie’s return, but should Butler’s reporting prove accurate, the 26-23 Nets, who have risen to the No. 6 seed in the Eastern Conference, could be without their third-leading scorer for quite a while.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressKyrie Irving scored 37 points and the Boston Celtics rallied late in the fourth quarter to beat the Indiana Pacers by 99-91 on Wednesday night. The win gave Boston a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven, first-round seriesComing out of a timeout and with a chance to tie, the Pacers’ Wesley Matthews threw an inbounds pass into the bench on the other side of the court with 12.1 seconds left. On the ensuing play, the Celtics’ Al Horford passed to Jayson Tatum, who was fouled on a two-handed dunk. He completed the three-point play to make it 97-91 with 8.8 seconds left.The Pacers turned it over again and the Celtics were able to close out the game at the free throw line.Tatum scored 26 points, including a thunderous dunk down the stretch to help punctuate a 10-0 run by Boston over the final five minutes.[Read: Jayson Tatum has a daily reminder of the booming dunk he delivered on LeBron James last year.]Bojan Bogdanovic led Indiana with 23 points. Thaddeus Young added 15 points.Indiana led by 79-68 entering the fourth. Horford opened the final period scoring on a hook shot in the lane and Tyreke Evans responded with a 3-pointer on Indiana’s first possession.But then Boston caught fire, using a 16-0 run, including eight straight by Irving, to take an 86-82 lead with 5:04 to play. Indiana missed 10 straight shots during the run, finally breaking a nearly eight-minute scoring drought with a 3-pointer by Matthews in front of the Celtics’ bench.Horford had been a game-time decision with an illness, but was able to remain in the Celtics’ starting lineup. He was noticeably a step slower at the outset and didn’t take his first shot until late in the second quarter. He didn’t score his first points until the fourth, finishing with four points, 10 rebounds and four assists for the game.Game 3 is Friday in Indiana.BUCKS 120, PISTONS 99 Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points in Milwaukee’s big third quarter and the Bucks beat the Detroit Pistons, 120-99, on Wednesday night to take a 2-0 lead in the first-round playoff series.Eric Bledsoe led the Bucks with 27 points, and Khris Middleton had 24. Milwaukee is trying win a playoff series for the first time since 2001.Luke Kennard had 19 points for Detroit. Reggie Jackson and Andre Drummond each added 18, and Drummond had 16 rebounds. Detroit star Blake Griffin sat out again with a left knee injury, but received a technical for the second straight game for arguing from the bench.After scoring 10 points and playing only 14 minutes in the first half because of foul trouble, Antetokounmpo scored Milwaukee’s first seven points in the third quarter. The Bucks outscored Detroit 35-17 in the period to take a 93-76 lead into the fourth.Detroit clawed within seven in the fourth before the Bucks put it away, capped by a hard drive by Antetokounmpo on a break. He banked in an awkward reverse-angle shot while crashing to the floor after being fouled by Drummond. He competed the three-point play it make it 105-87.Game 3 is Saturday night in Detroit.GRIZZLIES HIRE EXECUTIVES The Memphis Grizzlies have hired Rich Cho as vice president of basketball strategy and Glen Grunwald as a senior adviser within the franchise’s basketball operations department.Cho is a former Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers general manager. Grunwald was general manager of the Knicks and the Toronto Raptors.Before coming to Portland, Cho was an assistant general manager with the Seattle SuperSonics and continued in that role when the franchise became the Oklahoma City Thunder. Grunwald worked with the Knicks from 2006-13, serving as executive vice president and general manager for the final two seasons of that stretch. He was Toronto’s general manager from 1997 to 2004.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideThe Philadelphia 76er who made the greatest impact in Game 3 of the team’s first-round playoff series against the Nets wasn’t Ben Simmons, the N.B.A.’s reigning rookie of the year, who scored 31 points. Nor was it the team’s most dominant player, Joel Embiid, who missed the game with knee tendinitis. Or the sharpshooter J.J. Redick. Or the four-time All Star Jimmy Butler.It was Tobias Harris, the oft-traded, oft-underappreciated power forward who has an ego compact enough to fit inside his white headband — with room to spare.“Tobias was our bell-ringer tonight,” 76ers Coach Brett Brown said Thursday after the 131-115 win gave Philadelphia a two-games-to-one lead in the best-of-seven series, which resumes Saturday in Brooklyn.Harris finished with playoff career highs of 29 points and 16 rebounds and made all six of his 3-pointers. At 6-foot-9, he owned the perimeter against the Nets’ smaller guards, and his work on defense was just as effective.“You start looking at Tobias’s rebounds and what he did from the 3-point line,” Brown said. “I’m proud of him. He’s good people, and he was fantastic tonight.”The Nets are the feel-good story of the postseason, given the expectations for them last fall. But after losses in the last two games, it would seem that chemistry, scrappiness and heart go only so far against a Philadelphia lineup with the most talent outside Golden State.Harris, who is from Dix Hills on Long Island, was the final piece of a Sixers team assembled to make a deep playoff run. In early February, amid the best season of his career, Harris was traded from the Los Angeles Clippers. He could have signed an $80 million contract extension with the Clippers in the last off-season but decided to gamble on himself instead. He elected to play out his final year and become an unrestricted free agent this summer in hopes of a max contract — and some stability.Having been traded five times in eight seasons, Harris would like to be able to drop off his dry cleaning, then wake up in the same city to pick it up. At 26, after an All-Star-caliber season, he is looking for a home. That might even be Philadelphia.He averaged 20 points and 7.9 rebounds this season in a total of 82 games with the Clippers and Sixers. In 27 regular-season games for Philadelphia, Harris averaged 18.2 points, tying him with Butler for second on the 76ers’ scoring list, behind Embiid, who averaged 27.5.For Game 4, the 76ers may still be without Embiid, which means that they will again need balanced scoring from the rest of their talented cast. On Thursday, Philadelphia had three scorers with 26 or more points (Simmons, Harris, Redick). The last time the franchise accomplished that in a playoff game was Game 3 of the 1978 conference semifinals against the Knicks. That night, it was Julius Erving, George McGinnis and World B. Free.“I felt good,” Harris said. “I just came in knowing with Joel down, it was a big scoring loss we had out there. I had to be aggressive from the start. I got some good looks throughout the game. I was able to let it fly, and it felt good for it to go in.”“It was a big game personally for myself and for the team, too,” he added.Beyond basketball, Harris co-stars in the best buddy movie in the N.B.A., known as the Bobi + Tobi Show. In 2016, Harris and Boban Marjanovic, a 7-foot-3 Serbian center, developed a close bond while playing for the Detroit Pistons. They were then traded to the Clippers for Blake Griffin in January 2018. About a year later, they became a package deal headed to Philadelphia.The Clippers produced three web episodes of the “Bobi + Tobi Show” focused on the pair’s friendship and foibles. They took a SoulCycle class together. They attempted a dance lesson. The fun continued in Philadelphia, where a TV station did a quiz show segment with them, focusing on trivia about their new city. Neither could pronounce “Schuylkill.”In Game 3, Marjanovic played the sidekick during Harris’s star turn. He came off the bench and split time with Greg Monroe, who had replaced Embiid in the starting lineup.Monroe and Marjanovic combined for 43 minutes and 21 of the Sixers’ 54 rebounds. With Harris defending on the perimeter, the load was lighter on the big men in the paint, though Marjanovic fouled out with about seven minutes left in the game.No matter. His buddy had his back. The game was in control, and Harris looked right at home.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — The last spot in the NBA playoffs went to the Detroit Pistons.Their reward: A series against MVP candidate Giannis Antetokounmpo and the Milwaukee Bucks.The drama of the regular season went all the way to the very end of the regular season, with seven of the eight first-round playoff matchups not being clinched until the final night was in the books — the last three of them, out West, going down to literally the final moments.The two-time defending champion Golden State Warriors will start their quest for a fourth title in five years against the Los Angeles Clippers."It's not going to be as easy as people think it is," Warriors star Kevin Durant said.That's the beauty of the playoffs. It's not supposed to be easy.First-round games in all eight series will be played starting Saturday and Sunday. The second round cannot begin until April 27 at the earliest, the conference finals couldn't start before May 12 and the NBA Finals will start on May 30.EASTERN CONFERENCEThe only matchup in the NBA that was set before Wednesday night was No. 4 Boston against No. 5 Indiana.Everything else, just like all the West matchups, fell into place during Game 82s on Wednesday.The Bucks, the NBA's top overall seed, play the Pistons. No. 2 Toronto draws No. 7 Orlando, with the Magic in the postseason for the first time since 2012. And No. 3 Philadelphia — a team wrapped in intrigue right now — will face No. 6 Brooklyn.Joel Embiid played in only 10 of the 76ers' 24 games since the All-Star break, and general manager Elton Brand told reporters Wednesday that "it is possible" the team's best scorer and rebounder won't be ready to start the playoffs.Embiid isn't the only injury situation that made headlines Wednesday: The Celtics announced that Marcus Smart will miss four to six weeks with an injury to his left oblique — a massive blow to Boston.WESTERN CONFERENCEPortland rallied from 28 points down on Wednesday against Sacramento — which blew a lead that large for the second time this season.Denver finished on a 15-0 run to beat Minnesota.And with that, the West bracket was shaken up one last time before it was finally set.Top-seeded Golden State will face the eighth-seeded Clippers, a matchup that was known after early results Wednesday. The rest went right down to the wire, with No. 2 Denver facing No. 7 San Antonio, No. 3 Portland getting No. 6 Oklahoma City and No. 4 Houston facing No. 5 Utah. It was a worst-case for Houston, which entered the season's final night in place to finish second, third or fourth in the West.The way the results fell means the Rockets, if they get past the Jazz, would likely see the Warriors in the second round — and not in the Western Conference finals. So there will be no rematch of last year's title series out West, a tussle where the Rockets had a 3-2 series lead before Chris Paul's hamstring balked and the Warriors went on to advance and reach the NBA Finals.The Nuggets clinched the No. 2 seed with their big rally to top the Timberwolves. The Blazers got to the No. 3 spot with their wild comeback to beat the Kings. The combination of those results dropped Houston to the No. 4 seed.SATURDAY SCHEDULEAll times EasternBrooklyn at Philadelphia, 2:30 p.m.Orlando at Toronto, 5 p.m.L.A. Clippers at Golden State, 8 p.m.San Antonio at Denver, 10:30 p.m.SUNDAY SCHEDULEAll times EasternIndiana at Boston, 1 p.m.Oklahoma City at Portland, 3:30 p.m.Detroit at Milwaukee, 7 p.m.Utah at Houston, 9:30 p.m.SCORING MARKNBA teams averaged 111.2 points this season, the 11th-highest mark in league history.It's also the highest scoring clip in the league since 1970-71.Records were set for 3-pointers made and attempted for the seventh straight season, along with total points for the fifth time in the last six years. NBA teams scored 273,573 points this season, fueled by new rules that allowed offenses more freedom of movement, a league-wide commitment to playing at a faster pace — and the still-growing love affair with the 3-pointer.In the 2012-13 season, NBA teams averaged 20 attempts from 3-point range — which was a record at that time. This season, they averaged 32 attempted 3s per game.FAREWELLA pair of legends played for the final time Wednesday night — and went out in style.Dwyane Wade had a triple-double for Miami at Brooklyn, 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists. Dirk Nowitzki had 20 points and 10 rebounds for Dallas at San Antonio.The Heat and Mavericks both lost, which was irrelevant to both clubs. The nights were about Wade and Nowitzki, both All-Stars this season.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers has shown throughout his 16-year N.B.A. career that he is good at a lot of basketball-related activities, including scoring, passing, rebounding and winning. But perhaps one of his most remarkable assets — a feat, really — is his durability. He seldom misses games because of injury.But now, less than a week after turning 34, James is still on the mend from straining his left groin in a win over the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day. The timetable for his return remains uncertain.The Lakers announced on Friday, before playing the visiting Knicks, that James would not make a coming trip with the team for back-to-back games against the Minnesota Timberwolves on Sunday and the Dallas Mavericks on Monday. The Lakers’ next game after that is on Wednesday against the Detroit Pistons at Staples Center.The team said in its statement that James was making “progress with his recovery” as he received daily treatment from the team’s medical staff and that he would be re-evaluated in one week.Entering Friday, the Lakers had lost three of the four games they had played without James, dropping them to eighth place in the Western Conference standings with a 21-17 record — a precarious position for a team with playoff hopes. The Sacramento Kings were two games back in ninth place.James’s absence has been compounded by the loss of Rajon Rondo, a veteran point guard who injured a ligament in his right ring finger against the Warriors and could miss three to four more weeks after undergoing surgery. Rondo had already missed 17 games this season because of a fractured bone in the same hand.Their absences have meant an increased reliance on the team’s young core, which includes Brandon Ingram, Kyle Kuzma and Lonzo Ball. Those players have delivered at times, but not consistently enough to manufacture many wins.As for James, he had been playing some of the finest basketball of his career, averaging 27.3 points, 8.3 rebounds and 7.1 assists while shooting 51.8 percent from the field and 35.6 percent from 3-point range. He appeared in each of the Lakers’ first 34 games and had not missed a game since April 12, 2017, back when he was employed by the Cleveland Cavaliers. That gave him a streak of 156 consecutive games played, including in the postseason.“I take a lot of pride in it,” James said of his sturdiness after injuring his groin. “That’s why it pissed me off not to be able to go back into the game. It’s more than anything being available to my teammates, being available to my coaching staff. That’s something I take more personal than anything. Hopefully it’s not a long thing.”The Lakers initially listed James as day-to-day after he underwent a magnetic resonance imaging exam. But Coach Luke Walton has said that the team will be cautious with James, who signed a four-year, $154 million deal in July.For much of his career, James has been able to ward off the corrosive effects of his profession — the daily wear and tear, the punishment from defenders. If nothing else, the last couple of weeks have revealed him to be at least semi-mortal, after all — and the Lakers are taking no chances, hoping they can remain afloat until he returns.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — Saddled with early foul trouble and faced with an aggressive defensive scheme that kept him in check for the first two quarters, Giannis Antetokounmpo set the tone immediately in the second half.Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points in Milwaukee's big third quarter and the Bucks beat the Detroit Pistons 120-99 on Wednesday night to take a 2-0 lead in the first-round playoff series.After scoring 10 points and playing only 14 minutes in the first half, Antetokounmpo scored Milwaukee's first seven points in the third quarter."It is about will," Antetokounmpo said. "I knew they were going to put guys in the paint, crowd me. I just tried to have patience."As the Bucks took the court after halftime, Eric Bledsoe had some words of advice for the team's leader."Eric told me, 'Be aggressive, it is going to come.' That is what I tried to do," Antetokounmpo said.The Bucks outscored Detroit 35-17 in the period to take a 93-76 lead into the fourth."I don't think he felt great about how he played in the first half," Bucks coach Mike Budenholzer said about Antetokounmpo. "When he feels that way, he's going to do something to change it."Bledsoe led the Bucks with 27 points, and Khris Middleton had 24. Milwaukee is trying to win a series for the first time since 2001."We knew they was going to come out with fight," Bledsoe said. "We just had to match their intensity."Luke Kennard had 19 points for Detroit. Reggie Jackson and Andre Drummond each added 18, and Drummond had 16 rebounds. Detroit star Blake Griffin sat out again with a left knee injury, but received a technical for the second straight game for arguing from the bench."For the most part, we came out and competed and we definitely made them feel us," Jackson said.Game 3 is Saturday night in Detroit.Detroit clawed within seven in the fourth before the Bucks put it away, capped by a hard drive by Antetokounmpo on a break. He banked in an awkward reverse-angle shot while crashing to the floor after being fouled by Drummond. He completed the three-point play to make it 105-87.After falling behind early, Detroit battled back in the second quarter, finally taking a 57-56 lead on Jackson's jumper with 28 seconds left. Bledsoe briefly put the Bucks back in front, but Jackson closed the half with a layup to give Detroit a 59-58 lead."I thought we set the tone in the second quarter," Detroit coach Dwane Casey said. "Our challenge has been extending hard play, not getting bored with fundamentals, not getting bored kicking the ball out, doing those things offensively."TIP-INSPistons: Griffin took part in light drills at the morning's shootaround while wearing a heavy brace on his leg. ... Thon Maker, acquired from Milwaukee near the trading deadline, started in Griffin's place for the second straight game. ... Detroit committed two turnovers in the first half.Bucks: G Tony Snell, who continues to deal with a left ankle sprain, was inactive. Snell has been sidelined since rolling his ankle March 24 against Cleveland. Sterling Brown started at shooting guard in place of Snell. ... Pau Gasol (left foot soreness) and Malcolm Brogdon (right foot plantar fascia) also remained out. ... F Nikola Mirotic, who played 15 minutes and scored four points Sunday, had two points in 11 minutes in Game 2. Mirotic missed the last 11 games of the regular season after fracturing his left thumb March 19.LONG DISTANCEAntetokounmpo made a 3-pointer as part of his personal 7-0 run to start the third quarter."I have been working on it a lot," he said. "It is a part of my game now. That one went in and we were able to make a run. I know they are going to give me those shots the whole game. I've just got to be able to be mentally prepared and get to my rhythm and take those shots."Detroit's plan was to keep Antetokounmpo out of the paint and force him to shoot from deep. "That's the shot right now in his career, you want him to shoot those threes. But the day is going to come when Antetokounmpo is going to make that shot consistently and we are all going to be in trouble."KENNARD GETS STARTAfter Luke Kennard scored 21 points off the bench in Game 1, Casey inserted into the starting lineup."Starting or coming off the bench, either way is fine with me," Kennard said. "We wanted to create a little bit more space on offense. I thought we did that and got some good looks."PACKERS SHOW SUPPORTGreen Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers and girlfriend Danica Patrick attended the game. Packers left tackle David Bakhtiari, sporting a Bucks cap, guzzled can of Spotted Cow beer while being shown on the scoreboard.BREWERS CHEERING SECTIONSeveral members of the Milwaukee Brewers also cheered on the Bucks, including reigning National League MVP Christian Yelich, pitchers Jhoulys Chacín and Jeremy Jeffress, manager Craig Counsell and president of baseball operations and general manager David Stearns.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherTwo top N.B.A. teams battling into double overtime. Memorable individual performances. And points, points, points. Thursday night’s game between the San Antonio Spurs and the Oklahoma City Thunder set a handful of records, but it was the Spurs who won, 154-147.LaMarcus Aldridge had his best night. Although he has averaged 20 points or more regularly, and frequently winds up in the 30s and 40s, Aldridge had never scored 50 points in an N.B.A. game until Thursday. And at halftime, it didn’t look as if Thursday would be the night, either; Aldridge had only 14 points. But a strong second half took him to 43, and the two overtimes gave him the extra minutes he needed to reach 56, a new career high.He tallied the 56 with six layups, three dunks, 11 midrange shots and 16 free throws. Notably, the 6-foot-11 Aldridge attempted no 3-pointers, which have powered most of the recent record-setting offensive performances in the modern N.B.A. (That was not surprising; Aldridge is only 2 for 14 on the year from distance.) Still, in padding his scoring in 1s and 2s, Aldridge became the first player to score 50 points without attempting a 3-pointer since Jermaine O’Neal had 55 for the Indiana Pacers in 2005.It was the most points by a Spurs player since David Robinson scored 71 in 1994, and the most against the Thunder franchise since Tom Chambers of the Suns poured in 60 against the team — then still the Seattle SuperSonics — in 1990.It wasn’t just the field goals. Aldridge was 16 of 16 on free throws, ranking second this season for perfection from the line. (James Harden had a 19-of-19 performance against the Detroit Pistons in November.) He also pitched in on defense, blocking four Thunder shots.“Well, he’s been a beast all year long,” Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich told ESPN after the game. “He anchors us on both ends of the floor.”As one might expect, Aldridge took a lot of shots in posting his big number. His 33 attempts were the most for a Spurs player since Tony Parker took 36 shots in a game in 2008.The other Spurs couldn’t miss from 3. While Aldridge stayed mostly down low, his teammates fired away from behind the 3-point line with almost superhuman accuracy, making 16 of 19 attempts. Their percentage, .842, was the highest ever for a team that took at least 10 3-pointers in a game, surpassing a 14-of-17 (.824) performance by the Chicago Bulls in 2005. It was a balanced attack, too, with Marco Belinelli going 5 for 5, Davis Bertans 4 for 4 and Bryn Forbes 3 for 3.The Thunder challenged some records of their own. Russell Westbrook had 24 assists in the loss, the second-highest total of the century, trailing only Rajon Rondo’s 25 for the Pelicans last season. That was part of a triple-double: Westbrook also had 24 points and 13 rebounds. That particular combination of at least 20 points, 10 rebounds and 20 assists is a rarity; it has been done only 12 times in the N.B.A. since 1960, and only one other time this century, in 2016 — by Westbrook.The scoreboard took a pounding. The combined 301 points in the game was the most since 2006, when the Suns and Nets combined to put up 318 in a double-overtime game. The Spurs’ 154 points were the most they had scored in a game since 1990.Both teams will enjoy a day off Friday, then suit up again on Saturday — in a rematch in Oklahoma City. Based on Thursday’s performances, that suddenly has become one of the most anticipated regular-season games in years.An earlier version of this article gave incorrect historical context for one superlative for LaMarcus Aldridge. He scored the most points by a Spur since David Robinson in 1994, not since George Gervin in 1978.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The Los Angeles Lakers described last weekend’s N.B.A. All-Star break as an opportunity for a much-needed reset, with the hope that they could ultimately make a playoff push after spending a few days apart. None of it sounded very convincing.But when the team reconvened for practice on Wednesday morning, LeBron James said his level of intensity had been “activated,” as if he were a superhero who had flipped a switch. He does not usually activate himself this early in the season, he said, but the Lakers need all of him now — in large part because they had lost so much ground when he was sidelined for about a month with a groin injury.“We would have loved to have had success when I was out, but we didn’t, so this is where we are right now,” James said.And when asked how he would elevate the play of his younger teammates, he put it simply: “We don’t have a choice.”In other words, it was sink or swim for the Lakers before their game against the Houston Rockets on Thursday night, and there would be no lifeguard.For one night, at least, the Lakers swam. They were cohesive enough to come away with a 111-106 victory against one of the better teams in the Western Conference. For one night, at least, the Lakers showed that they could erase a 19-point deficit by playing solid defense and making their free throws. For one night, at least, the Lakers could depend on players like Brandon Ingram (27 points, 13 rebounds) and Kyle Kuzma (18 points) to deliver in a game that the team really needed to win.The question now is whether the Lakers, who at 29-29 are the very definition of average, can build off it. Consistency has not been their hallmark.“It can give us some momentum that we need,” Coach Luke Walton said, “or it can do nothing. It depends how we respond to this.”Not so long ago, the Lakers had a similarly galvanizing win — or so it seemed.It was Feb. 7, and before the league’s trade deadline Magic Johnson, the team’s president of basketball operations, had failed in his quest to ship nearly half of the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans in exchange for the All-Star center Anthony Davis. It was a huge soap opera, and the Lakers responded in surprising fashion: by going out that night and defeating the Boston Celtics — on the road, no less.The win, though, was fool’s gold. The Lakers got pulverized by the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, then hobbled into the All-Star break with a loss to the Atlanta Hawks — a performance so devoid of energy that it seemed to signal a dysfunctional locker room, and maybe even one that was beyond repair.The team was below .500.Walton encouraged his players to reflect and refocus over the break. For James, that meant returning to Los Angeles in playoff mode — much earlier than he would prefer.But this is unfamiliar territory for James, a three-time champion who has made 13 straight trips to the playoffs and eight straight appearances in the N.B.A. finals. Now, with an inexperienced batch of teammates on the Lakers, he is merely fighting to lead them into the postseason.“I’m all about being uncomfortable,” he said this week. “I love being uncomfortable. I fall in love with being uncomfortable, so this is another uncomfortable thing for me, and I love it.”Then he must have loved what happened against the Rockets (33-25), who built a gaping lead in the third quarter behind James Harden. But the Lakers dominated the fourth quarter by limiting the Rockets to 36.8 percent shooting and forcing six turnovers. James finished with 29 points, 11 rebounds and 6 assists.“He’s had more of a serious focus on his face, about him, the last two days, even in the practice facility,” Walton said, adding: “I think he recognizes where we’re at and the sense of urgency we need to play with.”The Lakers also benefited from the fresh presence of Reggie Bullock, a versatile wing whom they acquired from the Detroit Pistons at the trade deadline. Bullock scored 14 points and defended the Rockets’ James Harden for long stretches. For a team that lacks much experience, Bullock could make a difference moving forward.“He’s a vet,” James said. “It’s great to have a shooter of his caliber, of his size; his competitive nature out on the floor. He was big for us.”The Lakers left Staples Center two and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final playoff spot in the West. But James expressed supreme confidence as the team prepared to visit the Pelicans on Saturday.“I like where I’m at,” he said. “I will love where I’m at in the next few games, and I believe — continue to get better and better.”As for his teammates — well, that is up to them.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — Giannis Antetokounmpo ran and dunked all over the Pistons until they just shoved him to the ground.The team with the NBA's best record wanted to show it can make a long playoff run, and the Detroit Pistons were helpless to slow them down."I don't know if they were ready for us," Antetokounmpo said. "But we just try to focus on ourselves. We just try to play with pace, run to our spots and try to make plays."Antetokounmpo had 24 points and 17 rebounds in just 24 minutes, and the Milwaukee Bucks rolled to a 121-86 victory on Sunday night in the opener of their first-round playoff series.Seven players scored in double figures for the Bucks, who led by as many as 43 points. Their 35-point margin was the third-largest in the franchise's playoff history.The Pistons only really caught up to Antetokounmpo when center Andre Drummond shoved him to the ground with both hands late in the third quarter, after the MVP candidate grabbed an offensive rebound with Detroit trailing by 41 points.Drummond was given a flagrant 2 foul and ejected. He blew a kiss to the Fiserv Forum crowd as he was escorted off the court."As a team we talked about it, to try to keep our composure whenever the opposing team tries to foul us hard or tries to hit us or play dirty," Antetokounmpo said. "Obviously, I'm not going to look to the referees for protection. I've just got to play smart and try to avoid the situations."Antetokounmpo was only 5 of 12 on free throws and 1 of 5 from 3-point range, but was 9 for 17 from the field.Eric Bledsoe had 15 points, and Brook Lopez and Khris Middleton each added 14 for the Bucks. George Hill scored 16 points off the bench."We were all over the map defensively and didn't get anything done," coach Dwane Casey said of the Pistons, who allowed 70 first-half points and trailed by 27 at intermission. "We have another level we have to get to with our intensity and physicality, because they're coming through there with balance, Euro-stepping, throwing elbows and stuff like this."We have to get our level of competitiveness up to start the game, because you can't spot a great team like this that many points and expect to get back into it."Luke Kennard paced the Pistons with 21 points off the bench and Drummond had 12 points and 12 rebounds. Reggie Jackson also had 12 points. Detroit played without forward Blake Griffin, who sat out with a left knee injury.Detroit shot 38% from the field and went 8 of 27 from 3-point distance (29.6."I think it was top-notch today," Bledsoe said of the Bucks' defensive performance. "Brook was protecting the paint all night. We were getting steals, playing our game and getting out in transition. We started early so that helped us out."The Bucks sank 15 3-pointers, just one shy of tying a playoff high, and compiled 31 assists on 44 made field goals.Drummond got the defensive assignment on Antetokounmpo after Thon Maker got in early foul trouble trying to stop him."I have watched that kid since he got drafted so I know his game like the back of my hand," Drummond said. "He is just going to put his head down and keep driving in there. (The plan) is to make him take tough shots, take charges when he does try to bulldog his way in, force him to take 3-point shots, and if we do foul him, foul him as hard as possible."GRIFFIN GETS A TECHGriffin was issued a technical foul for protesting Drummond's ejection. Casey said he understood what the referees were doing to keep control of the game but thought a flagrant 1 foul would have been more appropriate."I think it was a flagrant but I don't think Andre deserved to be out the rest of the game," Griffin said. "At least that is my opinion in real time."Casey said he thought Griffin did not deserve a technical."What I didn't understand was an official coming over and having a conversation with a player that's not even playing and giving him a technical," Casey said. "It's a hot situation. Walk to the other side of the floor instead of having a conversation."Griffin said it was frustrating having to watch Game 1 from the sideline."I never like to feel like I'm leaving my guys out there," Griffin said. "But I have to do what our organization, our training staff, our doctors think is best, and that is the bottom line."TIP-INSDetroit: Maker faced his former team and started in Griffin's place. He avoided a flagrant foul when he brought Antetokounmpo to the floor in the second quarter. The referees reviewed the play but stayed with their original call of a common foul. Maker had four points and four rebounds in 22 minutes and was booed heavily by the home crowd. "Thon is my little brother," Antetokounmpo said. "I've known him since he came to the league. We've been friends. But I know he's a competitor. I know he's going to come out here and do whatever he can to help his team win. . Detroit entered with a 14-3 playoff record against Milwaukee, winning all four series.Milwaukee: F Nikola Mirotic played 15 minutes while scoring four points on 2-of-8 shooting. "He's just getting back in conditioning and health and everything like that," Bucks coach Mike Budenholzer said. Mirotic had missed the last 11 regular-season games after fracturing his left thumb on March 19 against the Los Angeles Lakers. ... The Bucks' 70 points were the second-most in a first half in franchise playoff history. They scored 77 against Philadelphia in the Eastern Division semifinals in March 1970.UP NEXTGame 2 is Wednesday night in Milwaukee.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressA look at where things stand in the NBA playoff picture, with four days remaining in the regular season:EASTERN CONFERENCEMiami controls its destiny, which sounds good.Miami could also be eliminated on Sunday as well.And Dwyane Wade's "One Last Dance" might end without a playoff berth.The Heat have not dropped four straight games at any point this season. It would be in their best interest for that statement to remain accurate on Sunday, when Miami — losers of three straight — gets the rare noon tip-off at Toronto. If the Heat win, they remain alive regardless of other outcomes. If they lose, it might be over.In fact, the remaining three spots in the Eastern Conference field could be claimed on Sunday. If Miami loses, and Brooklyn wins, and Detroit wins, the field will be set. If Miami wins, then the race is guaranteed to extend to at least Tuesday. And if the Heat go 3-0 in the next four days — after the game at Toronto, they host Philadelphia on Tuesday and visit Brooklyn on Wednesday — they're in the playoffs."You want to win in the playoffs, you have to learn how to win pressure games and games with expectation and consequences during the regular season," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "This can't feel any more like the playoffs right now. Our backs are fully against the wall. I just think this is an awesome experience for our team. You have to find a way to embrace this and rise to the challenge."Philadelphia cut its magic number for clinching the No. 3 spot to one by defeating Chicago on Saturday. In the only other game on the NBA schedule — intentionally made light by the schedule-makers because of the NCAA Final Four going on — Brooklyn went up one spot to sixth, passing Orlando, by holding off Milwaukee on Saturday. The Bucks rested Giannis Antetokounmpo in that one because of a calf issue.But all was not lost for the Magic.Orlando can clinch its first playoff berth since 2012 on Sunday; the Magic would get in if they win at Boston, or if Miami and Charlotte both lose. If the Magic don't beat the Celtics, then Boston would secure a top-four spot and home-court for the first round.WESTERN CONFERENCEOracle Arena will play host to more games. Probably a lot more games, to be honest, unless the Golden State Warriors get stunned in the early rounds of these playoffs.But on Sunday night, the Warriors will play a regular-season game there for the 1,936th, and last, time.And they could close that chapter at their Oakland home in style: A win over the Los Angeles Clippers in the home regular-season finale on Sunday would secure the No. 1 seed in the Western Conference race for the two-time defending NBA champions, who are moving to the brand-new Chase Center in San Francisco starting next season."We've got one more before we can seal up the No. 1 seed and take care of that goal," Warriors star Stephen Curry said. "These next three games are just about finishing the right way. I'm happy with where we are as a team, taking care of our business, and we'll figure out who we're going to play next weekend and we'll go from there."Warriors-Clippers could be the West's headline game Sunday night, though many others will have a say in the seeding races.Denver will look to sweep a home-and-home against the Trail Blazers when the teams meet in Portland. But the Nuggets are sitting Nikola Jokic, Paul Millsap and Jamal Murray to rest, which certainly helps out the Blazers.Houston will be a very big favorite over Phoenix, and the Rockets could still get to No. 2 in the West — the spot currently held by Denver, which cannot slip past No. 3. Portland would be assured of the No. 4 spot with a 3-0 finish, while Utah, San Antonio and Oklahoma City also have games that matter seeding-wise Sunday.SUNDAY'S GAMES— Miami at Toronto: Toronto is the No. 2 seed in the East and still could be No. 2 in the NBA. Miami has almost no more room for error.— San Antonio at Cleveland: This is a game that the Spurs should win, unless for some reason they want Golden State in the first round.— Oklahoma City at Minnesota: See above. Unless the Thunder want to see Golden State in the first round, they likely need to win this one.— Charlotte at Detroit: Pistons aren't as desperate as the Hornets, who need a 3-0 finish and help to get in. Detroit can still get No. 6 seed.— Brooklyn at Indiana: Nets went to 6th on Saturday, and will finish there if they win out. Pacers know they're likely going to be the 5 seed.— Phoenix at Houston: Rockets can still get to No. 2 seed if things break their way. The Suns have lost 239 games in the last four years.— Orlando at Boston: Magic will clinch their first playoff spot since 2012 with a win. Celtics will wrap up home-court for Round 1 with a win.— L.A. Clippers at Golden State: Warriors coach Steve Kerr has won at least 55 games in all five of his seasons. L.A. playing for 6th, 7th or 8th.— Denver at Portland: The resting-up Nuggets still can finish with No. 2 seed. Blazers may get to 3rd seed, trying to hold off Jazz for 4th.— Utah at L.A. Lakers: The Jazz are 31-10 in their last 41 games, yet still might not get home-court for Round 1. Extremely dangerous team.Games with no playoff implications: Dallas at Memphis, Atlanta at Milwaukee, Washington at New York, New Orleans at Sacramento.___CURRENT BRACKETFirst-round matchups if the season ended Saturday ...East: 1-Milwaukee vs. 8-Detroit, 2-Toronto vs. 7-Orlando, 3-Philadelphia vs. 6-Brooklyn, 4-Boston vs. 5-Indiana.West: 1-Golden State vs. 8-San Antonio, 2-Denver vs. 7-Oklahoma City, 3-Houston vs. 6-L.A. Clippers, 4-Portland vs. 5-Utah.___NOTE OF THE DAYNine teams had a 10-game (or longer) winning streak last season. This season, only Golden State has. Utah can get there by winning out.___QUOTE OF THE DAY"We're not satisfied." — Denver coach Michael Malone, after the Nuggets clinched home-court edge for their first playoff series since 2013.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt Stevens and Kevin DraperThe Utah Jazz permanently banned a fan who they said aggressively taunted Russell Westbrook, one of the N.B.A.’s premier players, during a game Monday night in an incident that has prompted discussions about fan racism and player security.Westbrook, the star guard of the Oklahoma City Thunder, said the fan directed “disrespectful” and “racial” comments toward him. “A young man and his wife in the stands told me to get down on my knees ‘like you used to,’ ” Westbrook said.In a video posted on Twitter by a reporter for The Deseret News, Westbrook, who is black, can be seen using expletives to say that he will beat up the fan, who appears to be white, and extends the threat to include the man’s wife. The video is about 30 seconds long and does not show the full encounter or what prompted Westbrook, a guard for the visiting Oklahoma City Thunder, to react to the fan.After the game, Westbrook told reporters that the man had said “disrespectful things” about him and his family that he thought were “racial” and suggested that the video posted online lacked important context.He acknowledged that he had threatened to beat up the fan’s wife but said he had “never put his hand on a woman” and “never will.” He also stood by his actions, saying, “If I had to do it over again, I would say the same exact thing.”On Tuesday afternoon, the N.B.A. announced that it had fined Westbrook $25,000 “for directing profanity and threatening language to a fan.” The announcement came shortly after the Jazz, in a statement, said the fan would be permanently banned from all events at Vivint Smart Home Arena because of “excessive and derogatory verbal abuse directed at a player.” The team said it had conducted an investigation that included reviews of video and eyewitness accounts.The confrontation between Westbrook and the Jazz fan — who has presented a starkly different description of the episode — is the latest in a series of incidents that spotlight how fans treat athletes and the sometimes explosive consequences that can result, issues that both Westbrook and the N.B.A. have frequently been at the center of.“There’s no protection for the players,” Westbrook said in his postgame comments, which were transcribed by a reporter for The Salt Lake Tribune and later provided to The New York Times by the Thunder, who otherwise didn’t comment on the incident. “I think there are a lot of great fans who like to come to the game and enjoy the game. And then there are people that come to the game to say disrespectful things about me, my family.”Westbrook’s teammates backed his account of the interaction. Raymond Felton told reporters that he had overheard the comments made by the fan and said they were “totally disrespectful.” Patrick Patterson appeared to confirm Westbrook’s account of events on Twitter, and wrote that “fans are protected in every way possible but not us.”Multiple news outlets identified the Jazz fan as Shane Keisel. Keisel told ESPN that he did not swear at Westbrook or otherwise say anything inappropriate, and that he believed they were having fun. In an interview with local television station KSL, Keisel said Westbrook had been using profanity and “acting a fool,” which fans responded to by heckling him.Keisel said he saw Westbrook’s knees wrapped in towels, so he told him to “sit down and ice your knees, bro.” Westbrook responded that the wraps were for heat, Keisel said, adding that he then told Westbrook, “Well, you’re going to need it.” Keiser said the woman sitting next to him, who ESPN identified as his wife, Jennifer Huff, did not say anything to Westbrook and had her hands in her lap.Attempts to reach Keisel on Tuesday were unsuccessful.Keisel was sitting in the third row on the baseline, near the Thunder bench. Unlike in most other sports, in basketball fans can sit just a few feet away from players. This can lead to good-natured and spirited exchanges — like the back-and-forth heckling between Spike Lee and Reggie Miller in the 1990s — but also to large problems.Most infamous is what is known as The Malice at the Palace in 2004. After a brawl between the Indiana Pacers and Detroit Pistons at The Palace of Auburn Hills in Detroit, a fan threw a drink at Ron Artest, a Pacers forward at the time who has since changed his name to Metta World Peace. Artest charged into the stands, followed closely by teammate Stephen Jackson, and threw a punch at a fan. Artest was suspended for 86 games, and five players eventually pleaded no contest to misdemeanor assault charges.Since the incident, the N.B.A. has taken numerous steps to prevent violence, especially between players and fans. Players are now automatically suspended if they leave the bench during an on-court altercation, and fans whose unacceptable conduct is overheard by or reported to security are issued cards warning them that they can be ejected from the arena.In a statement after the game, the Jazz said arena security issued several warning cards to fans during the game.Westbrook has had a number of run-ins with fans in the past, including in Salt Lake City. During last year’s playoffs, Westbrook twice got into it with fans while leaving the court. The first time he stepped toward and yelled at a fan that was leaning over the railing talking to him; the second time Westbrook swiped at a phone that a fan had pushed toward his face.“Here in Utah, a lot of disrespectful, vulgar things are said to the players here with these fans,” Westbrook said after that game. Afterward, Jazz officials said that their arena security was adequate, and updated their in-arena video message about fan behavior.Last month in Denver, a child sitting in the front row gave Westbrook a small shove as he landed out of bounds. Westbrook bent over and calmly spoke to a man nearby and the child, patting him on the knee and shaking his hand before returning to the game. “I told his dad, ‘Be careful, man. You can’t have your son just hitting random people,’ ” Westbrook said after that game.Westbrook also pushed a fan who confronted him on the court after a game in Denver last year, and was fined $25,000 for shouting a vulgarity at a Dallas Mavericks fan in 2016.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Harvey AratonThe crush of bodies surrounding Dwyane Wade as he left an N.B.A. court for the last time as an active player had the effect of a small tidal wave, surging through the jammed Barclays Center tunnel, head-on into a pack of waiting well-wishers.At the rear of the crowd stood Pat Riley, who brought Wade to Miami 16 years ago, nurtured him to stardom, celebrated three championships with him, let him get away in 2016 over a contract dispute and less than two years later welcomed him home with open arms.“Whoa,” Riley said, hands on the shoulders of his wife, Chris, steadying her against the swell of humanity.Now here, finally, came Wade, man of the hour. Wade and Riley, both standing 6 feet 4 inches, made eye contact. Riley raised his right arm forward. Wade reached above the security detail, clasping his hand with the team president’s. The linchpins of the Miami Heat franchise pulled together for a heartfelt embrace.“One more,” Riley told Wade. “I’ve got a max contract for you.”Wade snickered. Riley chortled. It was the self-mocking joke Riley could tell and they both could enjoy after Wade, having gone home again following unfulfilling detours to Chicago and Cleveland, was given the send-off he deserved.After being traded back to Miami by the Cavaliers early last year, Wade talked himself into a last dance for the 2018-19 season, many nights of which he played younger than his well-worn 37 years. Properly feted before Miami’s home schedule closeout on Tuesday night, he scored 30 points in a victory over Philadelphia and topped it off with a playful triple double (25 points, 11 rebounds, 10 assists) as the Heat’s season ended 24 hours later with a 113-94 defeat to the playoff-bound Nets.“I can retire and be happy about my career,” Wade would say, sporting a gold and black jacket in the interview room, on his way out to dance the night away with a guest list that included his N.B.A. “brotherhood” — LeBron James, Carmelo Anthony and Chris Paul.However dapper at 74, with a fine head of combed-back gray hair, Riley was never part of that social scene, just the patriarch who landed Wade with the fifth pick of the 2003 draft, considered at the time to be a consolation prize after James, Darko Milicic, Anthony and Chris Bosh were the first four players chosen.But Wade was more special than anyone imagined during his time at Marquette, a world-class gymnast in basketball footwear, with the uncommon calm of a cocksure gunslinger.When Wade had moved on into the corridor leading to the locker room, I told Riley about a 2005 playoff night in Auburn Hills, Mich., when Wade, as a second-year player, was making life quite difficult for the defending champion, defensively stout Detroit Pistons in the Eastern Conference finals.Taking a halftime stroll, I ran into Chuck Daly, who as the Pistons coach in the late 1980s had devised a defense specifically for Michael Jordan — the famous Jordan Rules.“I’ll tell you what, he’s got some Jordan in him,” Daly said, dragging on a cigarette, when I asked what he thought of the young Wade. “He’s got all the things you can’t teach.”Riley nodded. “Chuck was right,” he said.Wade had other elite qualities besides the balletic ability to score from angles we couldn’t be sure actually existed. He could pass like a point guard when his team needed an assist. He was a solid team defender. He retires as the most productive shot-blocking guard in N.B.A. history, having last month nudged past Jordan.Flashy as he was, Wade had some Tim Duncan in him, too. Until James arrived with Bosh in the summer of 2010, he was unquestionably the franchise star without having to broadcast it to the world, and his door was open to anyone who could give him a better chance to win.Wade embraced Riley’s 2004 acquisition of Shaquille O’Neal when Kobe Bryant wanted no part of the big fella in Los Angeles. He recruited James while fully aware of how the self-proclaimed King was great at basketball, as well as sucking the oxygen out of an organization.When James departed after two titles and four consecutive runs to the finals, Riley called it the most devastating blow of his time in Miami, but Wade insisted there were no hard feelings. It was business. He was still being paid to play basketball, live in Miami. How could life not be good?Yet he wasn’t immune to wounded pride when Riley refused to give him a third contract year in 2016, citing Wade’s balky knees and declining stats. Wade left, reluctantly, one more divorce in a league of ever-transient stars.There’s nothing wrong, nothing at all, with players maximizing free agency, leveraging their way to whichever location suits them at a certain career stage. James of course has been the pied piper of the paradigm. Kevin Durant is reportedly poised to again follow his lead, right out of Golden State.But James’s presence in Brooklyn on Wednesday night, a convenient excuse to avoiding dealing with Magic Johnson’s sudden, stunning disappearance from the Lakers’ front office, was a reminder that the more moves a player makes, the better the odds he might eventually outmaneuver himself.Meanwhile, Dirk Nowitzki, like Wade, was also demonstrating the currency in continuity, finishing a 21-year run Wednesday night with the Dallas Mavericks to widespread acclaim. Manu Ginobili and Duncan were similarly deified for staying the course in San Antonio. Wade will remain the toast of South Florida.In the Miami locker room, a few young Heat players lined up for Wade to sign their jerseys and sneakers. The No. 3 jersey he wore was given to Anthony, a shooter without a squad after parting ways with Paul’s Houston Rockets this season after a mere 10 games.Anthony did manage to scoop up a ball rolling out of bounds in the fourth quarter by the corner front row from where he, Paul and James were cheering on Wade. He took one dribble and, thankfully, resisted the temptation.“I didn’t get a chance to play against Melo this season and exchange jerseys,” said Wade, explaining the gesture. “He was the missing piece.”Throughout his career, wherever he lit up the scoreboard, Anthony seemed to miss the point, unwilling to — as former President Barack Obama said of Wade in a video tribute — “sometimes sacrifice your ego in pursuit of a title.”If Anthony never plays again in the N.B.A., is there a moral to their divergent stories? Only if the most graceful departure possible is a priority, part of the plan. It apparently was for Wade. He left with a self-assured smile and, while indicating he would probably need therapy to deal with the time on his hands, he ruled out a potential return.“I think everybody knows this is for real,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — At the midpoint of the N.B.A. season, Kyle Kuzma was daydreaming about something the Lakers have yet to unveil: a small-ball lineup with LeBron James manning the center position. The Lakers already generate the third-highest pace in the league using a traditional lineup, so imagine the possibilities.“That small-ball lineup is going to be huge for us,” Kuzma told reporters on Wednesday morning, “especially in the playoffs when everybody’s going to be going small.”Kuzma, a second-year forward, was making two assumptions: first, that the Lakers would make the playoffs, and second, that they would have enough time to experiment with the lineup and refine it ahead of a hypothetical trip to the postseason. Not to stamp all over Kuzma’s enthusiasm, but neither of those is a guarantee given the way the Lakers’ hodgepodge season has gone.Coach Luke Walton, to his credit, is taking a more pragmatic approach. Though he entered the season hoping to unleash a smaller lineup that could cause mismatch problems, the Lakers do not have time to mess around with experiments, he said, not right now, not after their recent struggles, not with their continuing rash of injuries and absences.“It’s going to get tougher to do,” Walton said, adding: “As the season gets further and further down the road, those, ‘Hey, let’s try this during the game’ — it’s going to be less and less because we’re in a pretty nasty fight for who gets in and who’s not in. So it will be more about what we’re good at, and try to get better and better at that.”Every team copes with injuries of varying magnitudes, and the Lakers have dealt with their share. On Wednesday night, LeBron James — no longer indestructible, apparently — missed his eighth consecutive game with a strained left groin, but he looked upbeat on the home bench at Staples Center during his team’s 113-100 victory against the Detroit Pistons.“I thought our team showed a lot of growth from, however you want to call it, the post-LeBron injury,” said Walton, whose team improved to 23-19.An important caveat: The Pistons, who have lost 15 of their last 19 games, are not playing stellar basketball. But the LeBron-free Lakers are beginning to look more cohesive and more confident than they did in the days after they lost him to his injury on Dec. 25. They have won two straight, with James’s return date still uncertain.After the Lakers’ medical staff evaluated James on Thursday, the team announced in a statement that he was progressing and had been cleared “to increase on-court functional basketball movements.” He is scheduled to be re-evaluated next Wednesday, but in the meantime the Lakers will play on without him, starting Friday against the Utah Jazz.James’s absence — however long it lasts — may not wind up being the worst thing for the Lakers. His workload over the past decade-plus has been immense, with most of his seasons extending through the N.B.A. finals. He just turned 34. Assuming he returns at full strength, without complications, James could probably benefit from a midseason break.More important, perhaps, has been the opportunity for the team’s lesser lights to operate on their own. The training wheels are off. For a while, it looked bleak. The Lakers lost five of their first six games without James, and it got bad enough that Kobe Bryant logged on to Twitter to defend Walton from an angry mob.“Relax,” Bryant, one the franchise’s most iconic figures, wrote in a post on his account. “Entire squad is damn near out.”At the time, the Lakers were without James, Kuzma and Rajon Rondo. Rondo could miss another two to three weeks after undergoing surgery on his right hand (for the second time this season), but Kuzma, who was sidelined for two games with a back contusion, has since returned.On Monday, with the rust from his injury still apparent, Kuzma shot 4 of 20 from the field in a win against the Dallas Mavericks. On Tuesday, an off day for the Lakers, he went to the practice facility and took 500 shots, Walton said. On Wednesday, Kuzma scored a career-high 41 points in 29 minutes while shooting 16 of 24 from the field.“If you would have told me two years ago, when I was in college, that I would score 40 for the Lakers, I probably wouldn’t have believed you,” Kuzma said. “Kind of crazy.”But this is his reality at age 23, and Walton said he was also pleased with the aggressive play of Lonzo Ball and Brandon Ingram, who are both 21. They are learning as they go, and their curriculum has been more advanced in recent days.At the same time, the Lakers have emerged as a surprisingly respectable defensive team. Entering Thursday, they ranked eighth in the league in overall defensive rating.Asked what he knew about his team at this stage of the season, Walton said: “We know that when we’re at our best, we’re a really good team. We know that we’re a team that can hang our hat on playing defense and getting stops. We’re good when we get out and run. LeBron James is really good.”But really, Walton said, there are probably more unknowns than knowns with this group. On only a handful of occasions has he had close to a full roster at his disposal. The rest of the league will be interested to see what the Lakers look like when he finally does.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAt the end of a dizzying frenzy of trades in the N.B.A., featuring 24 deals in one week, Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans stayed put — for now.Yet there was plenty of action to make up for the lack of a Davis trade, with two of the four title hopefuls in the Eastern Conference making significant acquisitions before Thursday afternoon’s trade deadline, intensifying the race at the top of the East after Philadelphia’s big trade earlier this week.In the most significant deadline-day deals, Toronto acquired the former All-Star center Marc Gasol from Memphis, while Milwaukee imported the sharpshooting forward Nikola Mirotic from New Orleans as part of a three-team deal that also involved Detroit.Those moves capped a wild seven-day stretch that began with the Knicks’ blockbuster trade of Kristaps Porzingis to Dallas and also included the 76ers’ acquisition of Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers. Philadelphia’s big swing to land Harris, who joined a starting lineup that already featured Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Jimmy Butler and JJ Redick, seemingly forced the Raptors and Bucks, who entered Thursday as the East’s second- and first-place teams, to make their own moves.Milwaukee, Toronto and Philadelphia, along with the Boston Celtics, are jockeying to become the first LeBron James-less team to represent the East in the N.B.A. Finals since 2010.The Sixers, at fifth in the conference standings, didn’t stop at their Harris trade, though. Shortly before the deadline, they made a surprising deal with the Orlando Magic to send the wayward guard Markelle Fultz — whom they selected with the No. 1 overall pick in the 2017 draft — for the small forward Jonathon Simmons and two future draft picks (one in the first round, one in the second).The Celtics, who entered Thursday in third, came away from trade season simply relieved that Davis had not been traded to the Los Angeles Lakers. After a nervy two weeks, during which the Celtics could merely watch because of an obscure league rule, they will now get an opportunity to make a run at Davis in the off-season — although Davis is said to remain adamantly against signing a long-term contract with the Celtics should they trade for him.The Celtics were ineligible to make in-season trade offers for Davis with Kyrie Irving still on their roster, since both Davis and Irving are currently playing under maximum rookie-scale contract extensions; league rules allow teams to field only one such player.The Lakers, however, were unable to persuade the Pelicans to surrender Davis during the exclusive negotiating window they had to pursue him in the wake of Davis’s Jan. 28 request to be traded. The front offices of Los Angeles and New Orleans had no discussions about Davis on deadline day, according to two people familiar with the talks, after negotiations broke down Tuesday over what the Lakers deemed to be exorbitant demands from New Orleans.Late Thursday, Pelicans General Manager Dell Demps confirmed that Davis would continue playing for the team rather than be held out to guard against serious injury in advance of the trade sweepstakes that will likely emerge closer to the draft. Davis had not played since Jan. 18 because of a finger injury followed by the team not wanting to risk an injury. Demps confirmed he would be back on the court soon.“Ultimately, Anthony made it clear to us he wants to play and he gives our team the best opportunity to win games,” Demps said in a statement.The Lakers on Thursday were left trying to recover from the instability wrought by their pursuit of Davis as they seek to make the playoffs in James’s first season in Los Angeles. They entered Thursday’s play at 27-27, good for just 10th place in the West, after falling to a humiliating 42-point defeat in Indiana on Tuesday night. The one-sided loss, against the Victor Oladipo-less Pacers, left little doubt that the mounting trade speculation surrounding the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma was taking a toll on the Lakers.When the Lakers couldn’t acquire Davis on Thursday, they did trade the Croatian center Ivica Zubac — who was among the promising young players mentioned as potential parts of a trade for Davis — along with Michael Beasley to the Los Angeles Clippers in a deal for forward Mike Muscala. The move opened a roster spot for the Lakers that will allow them to seriously consider signing the former All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony, but Los Angeles will have plenty of other options on the free-agent market as various veterans become available following the deadline.As the Davis talk cooled on Thursday, much of the focus leading into the deadline centered on the Grizzlies, who wound up trading Gasol but keeping their point guard Mike Conley, who had drawn serious trade interest from the Utah Jazz and Detroit Pistons.Conley, 31, has two seasons, with a combined salary of $66 million, left on his contract after this one, which convinced the Grizzlies that trading him closer to the draft in June might yield a better offer. Gasol, though, can become a free agent at season’s end, so Memphis had to trade him now or risk losing one of the game’s best two-way players without compensation this summer.Charlotte and Memphis engaged in serious trade talks regarding Gasol earlier this week, which prompted the Spaniard, who has only played for the Grizzlies — and who played his high school ball in Memphis after the Grizzlies imported his brother Pau Gasol from Spain — to clean out his locker.But Toronto, perhaps motivated by what the Sixers did and by the Bucks’ move for Mirotic, packaged Jonas Valanciunas, Delon Wright, C.J. Miles and a second-round draft pick in 2024 to add Gasol to a team straining to convince the All-Star forward Kawhi Leonard to make a long-term commitment when he becomes a free agent July 1.The Bucks, like Toronto, managed to upgrade their roster without surrendering a first-round pick. By expanding a Thon Maker-for-Stanley Johnson trade it had hashed out earlier this week into a three-team deal, Milwaukee landed Mirotic for the primary cost of four second-round draft picks, which were sent to the Pelicans, who also came away with Johnson and the veteran Jason Smith.The Knicks did not make another deal, one week removed from the Porzingis blockbuster that got the trade madness started, but they did set two veterans free to find deals on the postseason market. The outspoken forward Enes Kanter was waived, as was the newly acquired Wes Matthews — with Matthews immediately coming to terms with Indiana to join the Pacers after he clears waivers.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Luke Kennard scored 27 points, Reggie Jackson had 21 and Andre Drummond added 20 points and 18 rebounds as the Detroit Pistons locked up the Eastern Conference's final playoff spot with a 115-89 victory over the New York Knicks on Wednesday night.The Pistons will face the top-seeded Milwaukee Bucks in the opening round.Jackson scored 14 points and Drummond had 10 points and seven rebounds in the first quarter as the Pistons never trailed and led by as many as 16 points. Neither Jackson nor Drummond played in the fourth quarter.Wayne Ellington added 12 points for the Pistons, who hadn't made the playoffs since the 2015-16 season, the last time they finished over .500 (44-38). Before, Detroit hadn't made the postseason since 2008-09.John Jenkins led the Knicks with 16 points, and Kadeem Allen added 13. Henry Ellenson scored 12 points, and Mitchell Robinson and Isaiah Hicks each had 11.NUGGETS 99, TIMBERWOLVES 95DENVER (AP) — Nikola Jokic had 29 points, 14 rebounds and had a key strip in the closing seconds as Denver scored the game's final 15 points and secured the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs.James Murray added 17 for the Nuggets, who are in the postseason for the first time in six years and will face seventh-seeded San Antonio.Gorgui Dieng added 18 points for the Timberwolves backups and rookie Cameron Reynolds scored a career-best 17 points, including a 3-pointer that put Minnesota ahead 95-84 with 4:01 left.TRAIL BLAZERS 136, KINGS 131PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) — Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a career-high 37 points in his first start of the season and Portland secured the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference using just six players in a win over Sacramento.The Blazers have won 14 of 17 games en route to their sixth straight trip to the playoffs. Portland will open the postseason against the Oklahoma City Thunder, who finished in sixth.Marvin Bagley III had 20 points to lead the Kings, who lost their 11th straight game in Portland.CLIPPERS 143, JAZZ 137, OTLOS ANGELES (AP) — Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead seven players in double figures and the Clippers beat Utah in overtime, snapping a three-game skid to close the regular season.Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Patrick Beverley had 14 points in his return from injury.The Clippers' losing streak had already dropped them from the sixth seed to No. 8 in the playoffs, where they'll open against the defending champion Golden State Warriors.Grayson Allen led Utah with a career-high 40 points. The rookie made 13 of 14 free throws and five 3-pointers, but was limited to four points in overtime.The Jazz earned the fifth seed and they'll play No. 4 Houston in the first round.THUNDER 127, BUCKS 116MILWAUKEE (AP) — Russell Westbrook got his 34th triple-double of the season and Oklahoma City beat Milwaukee to lock up the sixth seed in the Western Conference playoffs.Oklahoma City played without injured Paul George, but Westbrook, Jerami Grant and Dennis Schroder led a hot-shooting effort from 3-point range. Westbrook had 15 points, 17 assists and 11 rebounds. He moved into a tie with Magic Johnson for second place on the career triple-double list with 138. Schroder had 32 points, and Grant added a career-best 28.The Bucks had already clinched the No. 1 seed in the Eastern Conference and rested star Giannis Antetokounmpo and some other key players.Khris Middleton scored 21 points in 17 minutes. Tim Frazier scored a career-high 29 points and D.J. Wilson added a career-high 18 while grabbing 17 rebounds. Rookie Bonzie Colson started and scored 21 points.MAGIC 122, HORNETS 114CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) — Kemba Walker scored 43 points in what may be his final game with Charlotte, a loss to Orlando that eliminated the Hornets from playoff contention.Terrence Ross scored a season-high 35 points, Aaron Gordon added 27 and the Magic clinched the seventh seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs and will face the Toronto Raptors in the first round.Aside from Walker's sharp shooting, nothing went right for Charlotte on the final night of the regular season. The loss also means Tony Parker's string of 17 straight playoff appearances is over.NETS 113, HEAT 94NEW YORK (AP) — Dwyane Wade recorded one last triple-double before heading off to retirement, and Brooklyn headed to Philadelphia to take on the 76ers in the first round of the Eastern Conference playoffs after securing the win and the No. 6 seed.Wade had 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in his final NBA game with close friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony leading the cheers from their courtside seats.D'Angelo Russell had 21 points on seven 3-pointers for the Nets, who will face the third-seeded 76ers beginning this weekend in their first postseason appearance since 2015.SPURS 105, MAVERICKS 94SAN ANTONIO (AP) — LaMarcus Aldridge had 34 points and 16 rebounds and San Antonio beat Dallas in Dirk Nowitzki's final game.Nowitzki finished with 20 points and 10 rebounds in the finale of his storied 21-season career — all with the Mavericks.The Spurs head into the Western Conference playoffs as the No. 7 seed.DeMar Derozan finished with 19 points and Derrick White added 14 for the Spurs, who finished with a 49-34 record.GRIZZLIES 132, WARRIORS 117MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) — Jevon Carter scored a career-high 32 points, Justin Holiday added 22 and Memphis beat Golden State in the teams' regular-season finale.Kevin Durant led the Warriors with 21 points, while Klay Thompson finished with 19. Durant and Thompson, who sat out Tuesday's win at New Orleans, were the only Golden State starters to play. Both saw action only in the first half.Golden State entered the game with its playoff position set atop of the Western Conference and sat most of its stars.Carter, a rookie from West Virginia who was averaging 3.7 points, was 10 of 18 from the field and 8 of 12 from 3-point range. Memphis was helped by 21-of-46 shooting from 3-point range.Bruno Caboclo scored 21 points, and Delon Wright recorded his third triple-double in the last four games with 13 points, 11 rebounds and 11 assists.76ERS 125, BULLS 109PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points to lead Philadelphia over Chicago in the regular-season finale for both teams.In preparation for the playoffs, the 76ers rested all five starters, and star center Joel Embiid's status for the opener is in question. The third-seeded Sixers said the 7-foot center's achy left knee may prevent him from playing in the postseason opener this weekend against sixth-seeded Brooklyn.Walt Lemon Jr. scored 20 points to lead the Bulls, who were without Denzel Valentine, Wendell Carter Jr., Chandler Hutchison, Zach LaVine, Lauri Markkanen, Otto Porter Jr. and Kris Dunn.PACERS 135, HAWKS 134ATLANTA (AP) — Edmond Sumner sank three free throws with three-tenths of a second remaining, lifting playoff-bound Indiana past Atlanta.Taurean Prince's 3-pointer with 1.1 seconds remaining gave Atlanta the lead, but DeAndre Bembry's foul on Sumner's last-second 3-point attempt changed the game.TJ Leaf set career highs with 28 points and 10 rebounds for Indiana.Tyreke Evans scored 27 points and Sumner had 22 as the Pacers won despite resting most of their top scorers.Prince and Trae Young each scored 23 points for Atlanta. John Collins scored 20 points and set a career high with 25 rebounds.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Malik Monk is learning. It might be his favorite word. He says he is learning from Tony Parker and Kemba Walker. He says he is learning to defend “grown men” who know the tricks of the trade. He says he is learning to vary his pace when he comes off the bench for the Charlotte Hornets, because he does not need to dial it up to flambé all the time.“You have to know when to speed up and when to slow down,” said Monk, a 6-foot-3 shooting guard, “and I’m still learning.”Monk, 20, did not anticipate that his first two seasons in the N.B.A. would be so challenging, not after he was the Southeastern Conference player of the year in his only season at Kentucky and the 11th overall pick in the 2017 draft. He is no less confident in his abilities than he once was, but he is definitely less naïve.“I thought it would be way smoother,” he said in an interview on Tuesday before the Hornets played the Clippers at Staples Center. “I thought I was going to play right away when I first got here. I thought I was going to play right away this year, too. But it’s been a lot of ups and downs.”His growing pains are not unique to second-year players. But there may be more organizational urgency with Monk given the Hornets’ uncertain future. Walker, their All-Star point guard and the face of the franchise, is due for unrestricted free agency this summer, and he needs more talent around him for the Hornets to be a contender. Perhaps Monk will be a part of that equation, but the clock is ticking — and it still requires some imagination to envision the player he could become.Monk, though, offers flashes, and some of them came against the Clippers: the 36 seconds of game action he required to take and make his first 3-pointer, his running floater on the following possession, even his pyrotechnic offense in garbage time. He finished with 24 points in 21 minutes in a 128-109 loss.“He’s an explosive scorer,” said James Borrego, the team’s first-year coach.As the Hornets (19-21) grapple for a playoff spot, Monk is averaging 10.8 points in 18.9 minutes a game while shooting 39.7 percent from the field. While he needs to become a more proficient shooter, he has more pronounced limitations on defense, where he is on the small side for a shooting guard and lacks the savvy of many of the (bigger, more experienced) players he is trying to defend.“Man, if you’re a second late, it’s over with,” Monk said. “You can recover in college. In college, you can hide in a zone, too. But here, you get exposed. Everybody’s so good.”At Kentucky, Monk teamed up in the backcourt with De’Aaron Fox, another immensely talented freshman who declared for the 2017 draft. Fox went fifth to the Sacramento Kings, and he has excelled this season, averaging 18 points and 7.3 assists a game while shooting 47.4 percent from the field. He starts. He plays loads of minutes. And he gets a lot of attention.Monk and Fox are on a group chat with a couple of other former teammates at Kentucky, Monk said, and they message one another all the time. Monk roots for Fox — “I tell him, ‘Keep killing, Fox,’ ” Monk said — but he cannot help noting the opportunity that Fox has gotten, and how much he has made of it.“If you get down on yourself, that’s going to mess everything up,” Monk said. “So I just try to stay positive. You have to be patient, man. Patience.”Borrego benched Monk for two games last month — the coach was frustrated with the team’s defense — but said on Tuesday that he was pleased with Monk’s progress.“He’s just got to be more consistent on the defensive end,” Borrego said, “and we’re seeing that growth.”Monk’s minutes, though, have been sporadic — much as they were last season under Steve Clifford, who now coaches the Orlando Magic — and he said he was learning to adapt. Everyone wants to start, he said, but maybe he was meant to come off the bench and develop into an elite scorer like Lou Williams or Jamal Crawford, two players who have turned their reserve roles into art forms. Or maybe, Monk said, his career will take a different turn.“There are always teams watching,” Monk said. “So, I mean, if this is not your spot, it might be somewhere else, and there’s always somebody watching — and it’s probably somebody that likes you. So you’ve got to go out there and do stuff for you and for your team. If you do both of those things together, you’ll be all right.”Asked if he was happy in Charlotte, Monk said: “I’m playing basketball. So, yeah, I’m learning, and I’m watching the best every night. If you’re not happy doing this, I don’t know why you came to the N.B.A. So me playing or not, I’m still going to learn, I’m still going to smile, and I’m still going to be who I am. So I’m glad I’m in this situation.”In their locker room at Spectrum Center, where the Hornets play their home games, Monk sits between Parker, already a legend from his days with the San Antonio Spurs, and Marvin Williams, a power forward in his 14th season. Both are consummate pros, and Monk suspects that the locker room layout was no accident.“He’s very coachable,” Williams said. “He wants to learn, and he wants to be really good.”Borrego described Parker as something of a big brother to Monk whenever they are on the court together with the team’s second unit.“A lot of times Malik feels like a wild stallion,” Borrego said, “and Tony’s out there trying to keep him calmed down.”For Monk, the lessons never stop. Michael Jordan, the team’s owner, delivered another last month when he smacked Monk on the head for prematurely celebrating a win against the Detroit Pistons. Jordan was being playful. Monk clearly cared, and that alone is worth something.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Seth BerkmanSeven years ago, Tacko Fall and Christ Koumadje were discovered by basketball scouts in a similar fashion.They were hard to miss.On the streets of Dakar, Senegal, the two 7-footers stood out. They were spotted by employees of the Flying Star Academy, a Senegalese training ground for several basketball players who have ended up on college teams in the United States. The employees chased after the teenagers, imploring them to try their enormous hands at the sport.[Follow our live coverage of the N.C.A.A. tournament here.]At the time, Koumadje, now a 7-foot-4 senior at Florida State, preferred soccer. Fall, now a 7-foot-6 senior at Central Florida, was more interested in devouring anime and manga series like “Naruto” and “Tokyo Ghoul.” Both were, at first, indifferent to basketball.But their potential upside was difficult to ignore. To onlookers, they evoked thoughts of the next Hakeem Olajuwon or Yao Ming.Today, their size offers less promise. They toiled to become giant forces in the paint, only to watch as basketball evolved from a game that coveted height into a more freewheeling, 3-point-centric game that deems their skill sets nearly as obsolete as a fax machine: nice to have, but no longer entirely necessary.“What’s interesting about both, their advanced analytics, they play off the charts — well over 1 point per possession, and that’s really effective in college basketball,” said Steve Kyler, the editor and publisher of Basketball Insiders, which produces weekly N.B.A. mock drafts. “When you dig deeper, in situational-type things they grade really well, but the truth of the matter is the N.B.A. game isn’t played that way anymore. It’s all about stretch 5s, quickness.”“I think they may get a look on the fringe based off their size,” Kyler added. “But a guy 7-foot-6 being the first overall pick or top five is pretty rare now.”In the college game, where height can still create a tangible advantage, Fall and Koumadje — who are among the tallest players currently in Division I — will be crucial cogs in their teams’ N.C.A.A. tournament performance.Beyond that, whether they can find a place and purpose in the N.B.A. — where the only active players who stand 7-foot-3 or taller are Dallas’s Kristaps Porzingis, who has a far more diverse skill set, and Philadelphia’s Boban Marjanovic — remains to be seen.“Extending my range is something I definitely want to work on,” said Fall, who helped the Knights earn their first N.C.A.A. tournament berth since 2005 by averaging nearly 11 points and 7 rebounds a game. “I’m not going to go out there and shoot 3s like a lot of bigs do now, but pick my spots.“But I feel like no matter how the game has changed, you still need somebody down low to do some damage.”Basketball academies in Senegal like Flying Star now regularly send players abroad. After playing for a few months at the academy, Fall got a chance to join a high school team in the United States. His mother reluctantly let her son go, hoping he would receive a better education.Extremely raw when he arrived at Liberty Christian Preparatory School in Tavares, Fla., Fall almost quit basketball. But he refined his game while playing on a travel team alongside Ben Simmons, now with the Philadelphia 76ers. Fall also trained in Houston with Olajuwon, a Hall of Famer who emphasized the importance of footwork for a center his size.Occasionally, Fall watched Simmons at nearby Montverde Academy, where Koumadje landed after coming to the United States. Fall and Koumadje only briefly overlapped in Dakar — Koumadje is originally from Chad — but in high school they talked on the phone or via Facebook. Their discussions rarely veered into basketball. Instead, they commiserated about the difficulties of adjusting to life when you are over 7 feet tall and 4,500 miles from home.Koumadje, like Fall, grasps the unlikelihood that he will develop into a free-shooting N.B.A. big man. Before his senior year in high school, he played pickup games at the University of Southern California with Andre Drummond of the Detroit Pistons. It was then, Koumadje said, that he realized he was more effective cemented in the post.“The game is evolving and that’s what people want,” said Koumadje, a two-year starter who led the Seminoles in blocked shots this season. “But I play to my strength. That’s what I do.”Fall’s turning point came after his sophomore season at Central Florida, when he contemplated entering the 2017 N.B.A. draft. Five teams told him he needed vast improvement adapting to the speed of the pros, particularly in guarding pick-and-rolls.Central Florida Coach Johnny Dawkins — a former Duke guard who played with the towering centers Shawn Bradley and Manute Bol in the N.B.A. — was hired before Fall’s sophomore year, and created a three-year plan for him. Increasing mobility and stamina came first, followed by catching the ball down low and learning to work out of double and triple teams. This season, Dawkins has moved Fall farther out on the perimeter defensively.Wherever he stands, Fall often forces opposing players to elevate more when they shoot, to get the ball over his arms.“Our floaters have to be a little bit higher, and it probably screwed a couple of guys up,” Fran Dunphy, Temple’s coach at the time, said after a game against Central Florida on March 9.Teams have tried less inventive strategies to bypass Fall’s 8-foot-4 wingspan. Fall, who is bulkier than Bol or Bradley, said that he had heard opposing coaches tell players to go after his knees.Though he is all but assured of breaking the Division I record for career field-goal percentage — he currently shoots over 74 percent; the record is 67.8 — Fall converts only 36 percent of his free throws. Fall — whose hands are 10½ inches long — said that when he shoots free throws it feels as if he is holding a volleyball.His shooting form, which involves using only his right hand while flinging his left arm in the air and then slouching, has drawn derisive comments on social media, where he is sometimes treated as a sideshow. After Fall had 13 points and 10 rebounds in a win over Houston that ended the Cougars' 33-game home winning streak, Fall got more attention for a GIF that showed him holding the ball over an opponent’s head like an older brother playing keep-away.Fall and Koumadje are accustomed to stares in airports and snide remarks from opposing fans. While both harbor N.B.A. dreams — neither appears in most mock drafts — they also envision a life beyond basketball, when their height won’t dictate how others perceive them.Koumadje said he would eventually like to work for the United Nations, helping refugees in Chad. Fall wants to become an engineer.“Basketball’s opened a lot of doors for me, but there’s more to me than the ball, the hoop,” Fall said. “I definitely don’t want to be defined by that. I definitely don’t want to be seen as an attraction, either.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points. At age 39, he became the oldest player ever to reach 50 in an NBA game.Heat 122, 76ers 99Dwyane Wade, playing the final home game of his NBA career, scored 30 points to lead Miami over Philadelphia.Wade made 10 of 23 shots, including 4 of 10 on attempts from beyond the arc. It was his second-highest scoring game of the season. But it was a bittersweet night for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention earlier in the evening when the Detroit Pistons rallied from a 22-point deficit to defeat the Memphis Grizzlies.Philadelphia, which has already clinched the third seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs, rested two of its stars: Joel Embiid, who was listed as having a knee injury, and JJ Redick (back).Warriors 112, Pelicans 103DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds against his former team as visiting Golden State defeated New Orleans.After clinching home-court advantage throughout the Western Conference playoffs on Sunday, the Warriors had Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson, Andre Iguodala and Andrew Bogut among their inactive players. Stephen Curry left for game after scoring five points in nine minutes in what the Warriors called "a precaution" after he sustained a mild foot sprain.Jahlil Okafor scored 30 points to lead the short-handed Pelicans, who dressed just eight players and finished the season 33-49.Raptors 120, Timberwolves 100Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points as visiting Toronto completed its regular-season schedule with a victory over Minnesota.The Raptors (58-24) secured the second-best record in the Eastern Conference with the win, behind only the Milwaukee Bucks (60-21), who play their final game Wednesday.Fred VanVleet added 16 points for the Raptors, Chris Boucher added career bests with 15 points and 13 rebounds, and Pascal Siakam and Norman Powell each scored 10 points. Gorgui Dieng and Andrew Wiggins each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves.Jazz 118, Nuggets 108Donovan Mitchell matched his career best of 46 points, and Utah posted a victory over Denver in Salt Lake City.Rudy Gobert added 20 points and 10 rebounds as Utah notched its ninth straight home win against Denver. Utah locked up the No. 5 seed for the Western Conference playoffs.Malik Beasley scored 25 points on 9-of-13 shooting for the Nuggets, who have lost four of their past six games and are a half-game ahead of Houston after the Rockets fell to the Oklahoma City Thunder on Tuesday.Trail Blazers 104, Lakers 101Instead of quietly sneaking into the offseason after losing its season finale to playoff-bound Portland, Los Angeles made some noise when Magic Johnson announced his resignation as president of basketball operations for the team.The game still meant something for Portland, though, and the Trail Blazers clinched home-court advantage in the first round of the Western Conference playoffs when Maurice Harkless made a 3-pointer at the buzzer for a win. The Trail Blazers can overtake the Rockets on a tiebreaker to finish third in the West with a win against the visiting Sacramento Kings on Wednesday.Harkless, who left the previous game with left hip tightness, finished with 26 points. Kentavious Caldwell-Pope had 32 points and eight assists for the Lakers, who finished with 37 wins -- two more than last season.Thunder 112, Rockets 111Russell Westbrook scored 29 points, but it was Paul George's corner 3-pointer with 1.8 seconds left that sent Oklahoma City to a home win over Houston.Oklahoma City trailed by 14 early in the fourth quarter and by four in the final minute before Westbrook's and George's heroics.James Harden made his first 12 free throws in the game but with less than 10 seconds left and Houston on top 111-109, he missed one, giving the Thunder a chance to tie or take the lead. Westbrook barreled up the court, briefly handing the ball off to Steven Adams near midcourt before getting the ball and firing it to George in the corner for what proved to be the game-winner.Celtics 116, Wizards 100Terry Rozier led seven Boston players in double figures with 21 points as his team closed out the regular season with a win over host Washington.The Celtics rallied from a 13-point, third-quarter deficit for their sixth win in eight games. Boston, which played without Marcus Smart, Jayson Tatum, Kyrie Irving, Al Horford, Marcus Morris, Aron Baynes and Gordon Hayward, will be the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs.Semi Ojeleye, Brad Wanamaker and RJ Hunter had 17 points apiece for Boston, which outscored Washington 27-15 in the fourth quarter. Tomas Satoransky led the Wizards with 19 points, and Bradley Beal scored 16 points in 16 minutes. Beal became the first person in franchise history to finish a season averaging at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists per game.Pistons 100, Grizzlies 93Andre Drummond scored 20 points and grabbed 17 rebounds, and Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to defeat visiting Memphis.Despite winning, the Pistons were unable to clinch the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. The Charlotte Hornets beat the Cleveland Cavaliers and remain one game behind Detroit heading into Wednesday night's final regular-season games. The Pistons finish against the Knicks at New York while the Hornets host the Orlando Magic.The Pistons, who trailed by 22 in the second quarter, climbed all the way back and took an 85-83 lead on Ish Smith's jumper just moments after his 3-pointer tied the score at 83-all. Smith finished with 22 points off the bench, and Luke Kennard added 15 for Detroit.Hornets 124, Cavaliers 97Kemba Walker and Jeremy Lamb scored 23 points apiece, and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive with a victory over host Cleveland.The Hornets led by 12 points in the first half and then pushed the lead all the way to 27 in the fourth quarter, winning their fourth straight and eighth in their past 11 games. They hit a season-high 22 3-pointers on 44 attempts and shot 57.7 percent from the field.Miles Bridges and Dwayne Bacon added 18 points apiece for the Hornets. Frank Kaminsky scored 14 and Devonte Graham had 10. Collin Sexton led the Cavs with 18 points.Knicks 96, Bulls 86Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points and Kevin Knox and Luke Kornet each notched double-doubles to lead New York past host Chicago.Knox had 17 points and 10 rebounds, Kornet chipped in 12 points and 13 rebounds and Damyean Dotson added 12 points for the Knicks (17-64), who are already assured of the NBA's worst record this season. They can do no worse than tie the franchise record for fewest wins in a regular season, set in 2014-15.The Bulls closed the home portion of their schedule with a 9-32 record, setting a franchise record for home futility. The 2000-01 team held the previous club standard for fewest home victories with 10.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Golden State Warriors celebrated their final regular-season game in Oracle Arena with a third-quarter explosion Sunday night, producing a 131-104 win over the Los Angeles Clippers in Oakland, Calif., that clinched top seeding throughout the Western Conference playoffs.The win was Golden State's fifth in a row and 30th of the season at home. The Warriors' first-round opponent, which will be the eighth seed in the West, has yet to be determined. The playoffs begin next Saturday.The Clippers' third straight loss dropped them to 47-34 and closer to a first-round matchup with the Warriors. The Clippers are battling Oklahoma City (47-33) and San Antonio (47-34), both of which won Sunday, for the sixth, seventh and eighth playoff spots in the West.Curry finished with a game-high 27 points for the Warriors, who improved their all-time regular-season record at Oracle Arena to 1,166-770. Like the Warriors, all five Clippers starters scored in double figures, led by Landry Shamet with 17. All but two of Shamet's points came on 5-for-6 3-point shooting.Trail Blazers 115, Nuggets 108Damian Lillard scored 30 points, and Al-Farouq Aminu added a season-high 23 points and 11 rebounds as Portland rallied for a victory over visiting Denver.The Trail Blazers closed the game on a 17-3 run to register their ninth win in the last 11 games. CJ McCollum made his return to the Portland lineup after missing 10 games with a knee injury. McCollum collected nine points, six rebounds and six assists in 25 minutes.Gary Harris scored 18 points to lead Denver, which won the season series with Portland 3-1. The Nuggets played without center Nikola Jokic, forward Paul Millsap and guard Jamal Murray, all given the night off for rest. They need to win their final two games, or get one win and a Rockets loss in their finale at the Thunder, to secure the West's No. 2 seed.Bucks 115, Hawks 107Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 30 points with nine rebounds, and Khris Middleton added 21 as Milwaukee recorded its first 60-victory season since 1980-81 in beating visiting Atlanta.Antetokounmpo, who is now six points away from 2,000 for the second consecutive season, was back on the court for the Eastern Conference champions after missing Saturday's game against the Brooklyn Nets because of a sore left calf.Alex Len scored a career-high 33 points for the Hawks, who were playing without starters John Collins (ankle) and Trae Young (wrist). DeAndre' Bembry added 13 points for Atlanta, which already has been eliminated from playoff contention.Nets 108, Pacers 96D'Angelo Russell scored 20 points, and Brooklyn clinched its first playoff berth since 2015 by leading most of the way in a win over host Indiana.The Nets clinched at least the seventh seed after the Detroit Pistons lost to the Charlotte Hornets earlier Sunday, and could have secured the No. 6 seed if Orlando had lost its game at Boston later on Sunday. Russell shot 7-for-15 and made a 3-pointer for the 60th straight game.The Pacers lost for the ninth time in 12 games and officially are locked into the fifth seed. Even if Indiana and Boston finish tied, the Celtics own the head-to-head tiebreaker. Domantas Sabonis led Indiana with 17 points and Thaddeus Young -- who was a starting forward in 2015 for the Nets -- added 16.Magic 116, Celtics 108Orlando clinched its first postseason berth in seven years with a road win against Boston, ended the Magic's longest playoff drought in franchise historyTerrence Ross scored 14 of his 26 points in the fourth quarter, and Nikola Vucevic had 25 points and 12 rebounds for the Magic, who were perfect (22-for-22) from the free-throw line. The Magic are tied with Brooklyn for the sixth seed in the Eastern Conference with one game left in the regular season.Kyrie Irving led the Celtics with 23 points, and Al Horford added 18.Raptors 117, Heat 109Danny Green scored 21 points -- including seven in overtime -- as Toronto defeated visiting Miami, sweeping the four-game season series.Miami's playoff hopes were severely damaged by the loss. The Heat are now one game behind the Pistons -- and tied with the Hornets -- in the race for the eighth and final playoff spot in the East.Pascal Siakam added 23 points and grabbed 10 rebounds, and Norman Powell also had 23 points off the bench for the Raptors. Dwyane Wade scored 21 points for the Heat, who have lost four in a row.Hornets 104, Pistons 91Kemba Walker scored 31 points, Frank Kaminsky added a season-high 24 and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive in beating host Detroit for its third straight win, clinching a four-game sweep of the season series.The Hornets (38-42) moved into ninth place in the Eastern Conference playoff race and are one game behind the No. 8 Pistons (39-41). Charlotte holds the tiebreaker edge over both the Heat and the Pistons.Walker added eight rebounds and seven assists and the Hornets also got 17 points from Jeremy Lamb. Detroit has now lost four straight and seven of its last nine. Blake Griffin scored 16 but was hobbling much of the day with a knee injury.Rockets 149, Suns 113James Harden flirted with a triple-double, Clint Capela posted added 22 points and 13 rebounds, and Houston closed out its home schedule with a 36-point dismantling of Phoenix.The Rockets turned in their second consecutive blowout win on their home court to keep hold of the third seed in the Western Conference. Houston led 117-77 entering the fourth quarter against the short-handed Suns. The Rockets have won six straight, all by double digits by an average of 25.8 points per game.Harden posted 30 points on 10-for-14 shooting with 13 rebounds and nine assists as the Rockets set an NBA record with 27 3-pointers. The Suns, missing a half dozen regulars, have dropped eight of their last 10 games.Thunder 132, Timberwolves 126Paul George and Russell Westbrook each scored 27 points as Oklahoma City had to come from behind, scoring 37 fourth-quarter points, to win its third consecutive game by beating Minnesota in Minneapolis.Oklahoma City's first three-game winning streak since winning four in a row from Feb. 5-11 has kept the Thunder in contention for the sixth spot in the Western Conference.Westbrook also finished with 10 rebounds and 15 assists for his 136th career triple-double. Westbrook is just two behind Magic Johnson for second all-time in the category. Karl-Anthony Towns finished with 35 points, hitting 13 of 14 from the free-throw line, and Andrew Wiggins had 24 points.Spurs 112, Cavaliers 90LaMarcus Aldridge scored 18 points, including 16 in the first half to a big lead, as visiting San Antonio throttled Cleveland in the teams' penultimate game of the regular season.The Spurs' victory, their third in their past four games, allows them to continue to put pressure on Oklahoma City and the Los Angeles Clippers in the battle for the final three playoff seeds in the West.DeRozan, Davis Bertans and Patty Mills contributed 14 points apiece for the Spurs, while Forbes scored 13. Collin Sexton and Brandon Knight led the anemic Cavaliers' attack with 16 points each, while Ante Zizic added 14.Lakers 113, Jazz 109Kentavious Caldwell-Pope scored 18 of his 32 points in the fourth quarter to help Los Angeles hold off visiting Utah, whose chances of gaining home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs were damaged.The Jazz (49-31), who also saw their seven-game winning streak snapped, trail Portland by two games for fourth place in the West with two games left for each team.JaVale McGee had 22 points and eight rebounds, and Alex Caruso had 18 points and 11 assists for the Lakers. Rudy Gobert had 21 points and 10 rebounds to lead the Jazz. Donovan Mitchell scored 19 points but missed all 10 shots in the second half.Mavericks 129, Grizzlies 127 (OT)Reserve guard Devin Harris buried a tie-breaking 3-pointer with 1:26 to go in overtime, and Trey Burke scored a team-high 24 points to lead visiting Dallas past Memphis.Backup center Salah Mejri slammed home key dunks in the latter part of the fourth quarter, tipped home the tying bucket with 1.5 seconds in regulation and then opened overtime with seven consecutive points. He finished with 19 points off the bench on 7-of-12 shooting to go with nine rebounds.Starting for injured point guard Mike Conley, Delon Wright had a triple-double for the Grizzlies with 20 points, 12 assists and 13 rebounds. Justin Holiday scored a game-high 30 points, drilling six of his 11 3-point attempts.Pelicans 133, Kings 129Elfrid Payton had a double-double and made a 3-pointer that put visiting New Orleans ahead for good in a victory over Sacramento.The injury-plagued Pelicans used just eight players after choosing to rest forward Julius Randle, but all five starters had scored in double figures by the middle of the third quarter. Payton finished with 26 points and 14 assists, while Ian Clark made a career-high seven 3-pointers as he scored a season-high 31 points.Harrison Barnes scored 29 points, De'Aaron Fox had 24 points and 11 assists, and Marvin Bagley III had 19 points and 14 rebounds for the Kings (39-42), who are guaranteed a losing record for the 13th consecutive season.Knicks 113, Wizards 110Mario Hezonja scored 30 points and hit a 3-pointer with 44.8 seconds left that gave New York the lead for good in a win over visiting Washington.In his second start at point guard in place of injured Emmanuel Mudiay, Hezonja made 12 of 21 shots for the Knicks, who had lost 11 of their previous 12 against the Wizards. The Knicks (16-64) must win their final two games to avoid matching the worst record in franchise history, set in 2014-15.Jeff Green had 19 points in 16 minutes for Washington, which has lost three straight. Thomas Bryant added 17 points, and Bobby Portis contributed 11 points and 10 rebounds.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
Maybe they were never going to win a championship this season, even with LeBron James, but they were not supposed to be this bad. What happened?CreditCreditHarry How/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Marc SteinThe arrival of LeBron James as their latest in a succession of superstar imports was supposed to halt the longest period of suffering in the Los Angeles Lakers’ California history.What James and the Lakers have experienced instead will be remembered as the most disappointing season of James’s career — because it will extend a stubborn playoff drought that has flummoxed the N.B.A.’s most glamorous franchise.Not even James’s presence could prevent a sixth straight missed postseason for the new Lakers, who are mere days from being mathematically eliminated from the playoffs entering Sunday’s visit to Madison Square Garden to face the Knicks. The Lakers, remember, missed the playoffs only four times in their first 53 seasons after relocating from Minneapolis in the 1960-61 season.So much for Hollywood fairy tales.Perhaps expectations for this team were unrealistically high, given the modest quality of James’s supporting cast in Year 1, but his Lakerland debut was never supposed to veer this far off-script for a once-in-a-generation player. What follows is a breakdown of how things fell apart — in six stages.Without warning, on July 1, 2018, the first night of N.B.A. free agency, James announced through a 39-word news release that he was signing a four-year, $154 million contract with the Lakers.Yet the ensuing celebration did not last even 24 hours.On July 2, Golden State boldly swiped some of the Lakers’ thunder by signing the former All-Star big man DeMarcus Cousins to a bargain deal. The Lakers then spent the next week scouring the league for the best players willing to sign one-year contracts — thereby preserving salary-cap flexibility for the summer of 2019 and their planned pursuit of an All-Star sidekick for James.The problem: Magic Johnson and Rob Pelinka, the Lakers’ nascent front-office power duo, signed a slew of nonshooters and, shall we say, mercurial personalities who, as a group, prompted instant second-guessing.The Lakers countered the skepticism by insisting that playmakers and playoff-tested veterans, rather than shooting specialists who could open up space on the floor, would ease LeBron’s burden and potentially even match up well with the mighty Warriors — only to see their signees do little to hush the told-you-so crowd. JaVale McGee, the veteran center, initially exceeded expectations, but the quartet of Rajon Rondo, Lance Stephenson, Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Michael Beasley proved as collectively ineffective as feared.Perhaps we should have known that this was not going to be the usual LeBron season when a fight broke out between a number of Lakers and Houston Rockets in James’s first home game at Staples Center.And the tension never really let up.After just eight games — five of them losses — Johnson summoned Coach Luke Walton for a pointed lecture about the Lakers’ sluggish start. The team’s legendary point-guard-turned-team president never intended for the meeting or any details to leak to the news media, but they promptly did in the no-secrets world of the N.B.A.Johnson immediately tried to play down suggestions that Walton’s job was already in jeopardy, in an interview with The Los Angeles Times, but he would not go further than proclaiming that Walton was “going to finish the season, unless something drastic happens, which it won’t.”Walton is certainly not blameless in the Lakers’ struggles. His lineups, rotations and responsibility for L.A.’s worrisome drop to No. 22 leaguewide in offensive efficiency have routinely been questioned. Management, furthermore, is said to be dismayed by Walton’s refusal to hire a seasoned former head coach as his top assistant — something young coaches (Walton is 38) frequently do.Yet the public nature of the heat Walton took from his own front office made Johnson look impatient and, worse, ramped up the pressure on everyone in the Lakers’ locker room — especially the coach — before they even made it to Thanksgiving. With two years left on a five-year deal, Walton is widely expected to be shoved out of his toasty seat for good at season’s end.What can be classified as the best day of the Lakers’ season, if you only considered the box score, is also bound to be remembered as this season’s low point.The Lakers went to Oakland on Christmas Day for a game in the most anticipated television time slot on the regular-season calendar and throttled the two-time defending champion Warriors. The 127-101 rout capped an 18-9 surge that nudged L.A.’s record to 20-14, good for a promising fourth in the dauntingly deep Western Conference.But James strained his left groin as he stretched to retrieve a loose ball in the third quarter. The Lakers gradually pulled away without him — and James optimistically posted to Twitter the next day about how he “dodged a bullet,” with a #BackInNoTime hashtag — but the injury turned out to be the most serious he had ever sustained.James eventually missed 17 games. No previous injury had ever sidelined him longer than the eight games he lost to a back injury in 2014-15. The Lakers went 6-11 without James and, even accounting for all of their missteps before and after LeBron went down, can rightly point to suddenly losing their star as the biggest blow to the team’s playoff hopes.It remains unclear how #BackInNoTime turned into six weeks on the sideline for James. An inevitability given his age (34)? The byproduct of the Lakers playing at a much faster pace than LeBron’s Cleveland teams? A freak occurrence?Maybe it was a combination of all those factors.What’s clear, though, is that the Lakers’ overall poor health has consistently hurt them.The Lakers, for starters, are 6-15 since Jan. 19, when Lonzo Ball, who had begun to impress James as their starting point guard, sustained a serious ankle injury. And there’s more.Tyson Chandler, the veteran center who made such an impact defensively after joining the team Nov. 6, is dealing with a neck ailment. Josh Hart, the promising second-year guard, has been plagued by tendinitis in his left knee for months. And Brandon Ingram, the swingman with tantalizing potential as a scorer, missed several games with ankle and shoulder problems before he was ruled out for the rest of the season recently with deep venous thrombosis.In real time, only 11 days elapsed between New Orleans forward Anthony Davis’s trade request going public on Jan. 28 and the league’s Feb. 7 trade deadline. But that surely felt like an eternity for the Lakers’ quartet of starlets: Ingram, Ball, Hart and Kyle Kuzma.Especially since the fallout is continuing.From the minute James arrived in Hollywood, after the Lakers made unsuccessful trade runs at Paul George and Kawhi Leonard, it was known that the team would try to trade for Davis — which meant all four of L.A.’s top young players were destined to hear their names in trade speculation. Yet the leaguewide consensus was that Davis would not be made available until at least the 2019 off-season, theoretically giving the starlets an opportunity to build something with James — and maybe even change management’s mind about looking externally for LeBron’s superstar sidekick.But Davis’s trade request changed everything. Rich Paul, LeBron’s agent and longtime friend, became Davis’s agent in September and was widely perceived to have made the trade request on Davis’s behalf to get him to Los Angeles. A seemingly ceaseless stream of leaked Lakers offers thereafter irreparably fractured the locker room, no matter how hard Paul pushed back against that narrative.Nor can the team fully move on from the trade drama, because everyone knows the front office will be back on the phones with New Orleans soon, trying to beat out the Boston Celtics’ package for Davis once the Pelicans start fielding offers for him anew.A Feb. 12 road loss to the Atlanta Hawks was the Lakers’ fourth in five games entering the All-Star break and lowered their record to 28-29. James emerged from the break insisting that he would shift into playoff mode far earlier than normal — “It’s been activated,” LeBron promised — but the Lakers promptly lost road games to the Davis-less Pelicans and the draft-minded Memphis Grizzlies after a hope-building home win against the Houston Rockets.The season effectively ended March 2 in Phoenix, when the Lakers lost to a Suns team in the midst of a 1-18 funk. The defeat meant L.A. had fallen to five of the league’s six teams which currently have sub-.400 winning percentages (Chicago is the only exception). The loss was soon followed by announcements that Ball and Ingram would be held out of the Lakers’ remaining games — and that James’s minutes would be reduced.James was held out of Friday’s game against the Detroit Pistons via the increasingly popular leaguewide synonym for rest — “load management.” LeBron’s load, of course, is about to become lighter in April, May and June than anyone expected.These Lakers were never a lock to reach the playoffs in the loaded West, but the overwhelming majority of league observers and Las Vegas oddsmakers — who largely pegged them as a 48-win team — figured LeBron would find a way. He has instead absorbed criticism for spotty leadership and intermittent engagement with his new team as he prepares for life as a playoff spectator for the first time since his second N.B.A. season (2004-5).Last summer, when he was still preaching patience, Johnson did say that he would need two off-seasons to assemble a true contender even if the Lakers were fortunate enough to land LeBron. “Next summer, if nobody comes and I’m sitting here like this, then it’s a failure,” Magic said at the time.But spring has barely sprung — and next summer is already here for the Lakers and James. Sooner than they ever envisioned, Magic, Pelinka and Jeanie Buss, the Lakers’ owner, are on the clock to make moves that lead to a honeymoon that lasts.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. PlayoffsBy The Associated PressThe Boston Celtics have been at their best this season when they are forcing turnovers, spacing the floor and knocking down outside shots.They found out in their win at home against the Pacers that they were equipped to win an ugly, physical game as well.Irving and Marcus Morris each scored 20 points, and the Celtics rallied in the second half to beat the Indiana Pacers, 84-74, on Sunday in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.Jayson Tatum finished with 15 points for fourth-seeded Boston, and Al Horford added 10 points and 11 rebounds, and Gordon Hayward had 10 points. It was the first playoff game since 2017 for Irving and Hayward after each missed last year’s postseason with injuries.“I just try to be aggressive on the ball, be in the right spots,” Irving said. “I just really want to be aggressive and really be the head of the snake.”Game 2 is Wednesday night in Boston.The fifth-seeded Pacers led by 11 points in the first half but had just 8 in the third quarter. The Celtics capitalized and led by as many as 22 in the fourth. Indiana finished with a season-worst 29 points in the second half.Cory Joseph had 14 points for the Pacers, and Bojan Bogdanovic was their lone starter in double figures with 12 points.Both teams shot worse than 40 percent from the field. Boston hit just 36 percent (28 of 77) and had 20 turnovers. Indiana connected on 33 percent of its shots (28 of 84) and turned the ball over 13 times.The Celtics’ 84 points were their fewest of the season; it was the first time Boston scored fewer than 100 points and won.“We held them to 84 points,” Indiana’s Wesley Matthews said. “We just didn’t score enough.”BUCKS 121, PISTONS 86 Giannis Antetokounmpo had 24 points and 17 rebounds in just 24 minutes, and top-seeded Milwaukee routed eighth-seeded Detroit in their East opener.Antetokounmpo ran and dunked all over the visiting Pistons, who caught him only when center Andre Drummond shoved him to the ground late in the third quarter after Antetokounmpo grabbed an offensive rebound with Detroit trailing by 41 points.Drummond was given a flagrant 2 foul and ejected. He threw a kiss to the Fiserv Forum crowd as he was escorted off the court.Antetokounmpo struggled at the free-throw line, making only five of 12 attempts, but was 9 for 17 from the field and 1 of 5 from 3-point range.Luke Kennard paced the Pistons with 21 points off the bench, and Drummond had 12 points and 12 rebounds. Detroit played without forward Blake Griffin, who has a left knee injury.TRAIL BLAZERS 104, THUNDER 99 Damian Lillard scored 30 points and third-seeded Portland opened its Western Conference series against sixth-seeded Oklahoma City Thunder with a win at home.Enes Kanter added 20 points and a career playoff-high 18 rebounds for the Blazers, who are making their sixth straight postseason appearance but had lost eight games in a row over the previous two postseasons. C J McCollum added 24 points.Russell Westbrook had 24 points, 10 assists and 10 rebounds for his ninth career postseason triple-double. Paul George, who was a game-time decision because of a sore shoulder, added 26 points and 10 rebounds after a slow start.Portland led by as many as 19 points in the first half, but the Thunder pulled to 80-77 early in the fourth quarter. Oklahoma City could not get closer, and Lillard hit a 30-footer to extend the Blazers’ lead to 89-81 with 6 minutes 38 seconds left.Westbrook appeared to hurt his right knee or ankle and grimaced while trying to walk it off. Trainers attended to him on the bench at the next timeout but he returned and his layup closed the gap to 91-87 with just under four minutes left.ROCKETS 122, JAZZ 90 James Harden had 29 points and 10 assists to help host Houston rout Utah on Sunday night in Game 1 of their Western Conference series.The fourth-seeded Rockets had a double-digit lead for most of the game, but the fifth-seeded Jazz pulled to 5 behind midway through the third quarter before Houston used a big run to pull away. Rudy Gobert had 22 points and 12 rebounds for the Jazz.It is the second consecutive year these teams have met in the postseason; Houston eliminated Utah in five games in the second round last season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressThe Nets were all business on Sunday. They started fast. They closed hard. And they refused to let anything, even a frequent nemesis, block their playoff path.Instead, the Nets beat Indiana at its own physical game and earned their first playoff berth in four years with a 108-96 victory on the road — though the muted locker room celebration made it hard to tell if players were more relieved or excited that the drought was over.“It means a lot, obviously to exceed expectations for a lot of us in here, to see how far we’ve come,” Joe Harris said after scoring 18 of his 19 points in the decisive first half. “It means a ton. Hopefully, it’s a sign of things to come for this organization.”After starting the season 8-18, the Nets (41-40) fought back to clinch their first nonlosing record in four years and can make it a winning season by beating Miami in Wednesday’s regular-season finale. They have the same record as Orlando; the Nets will finish sixth and the Magic seventh with a win or an Orlando loss. The Nets will be no worse than seventh.“There was another level of focus, another level of being locked in,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “They wanted it so bad, there was an extra energy there in these past few games.”The Nets, who got 20 points from D’Angelo Russell and 18 from Caris LeVert, ended a nine-game losing streak against the Pacers and a seven-game losing streak in Indianapolis that dated to March 2015.Domantas Sabonis had 17 points and 12 rebounds for Indiana, which has lost two straight at home and five of seven over all, locking the Pacers into the No. 5 seed in the East.“They were playing for something and they went out and showed it,” the Pacers’ Myles Turner said of the Nets.KNICKS 113, WIZARDS 110 Mario Hezonja scored a career-high 30 points and made the go-ahead 3-pointer with 44 seconds left, and the Knicks beat Washington at Madison Square Garden for the first time in nine games over six years.Luke Kornet added 17 points and Kevin Knox had 16 for the Knicks (16-64), who would have tied the franchise record for losses had they not rallied from a 10-point deficit after three quarters.“There’s no quitters in this locker room, in this organization, and we’re just showing we have a great chemistry going around and it resulted in a win,” Hezonja said. “So we’re not paying attention to standings or whatever it is. We just treat it as a development year and hopefully it results in something big next year.”The Knicks have to win their last two games to avoid at least matching their 17-65 record under Derek Fisher in 2014-15.HORNETS 104, PISTONS 91 Kemba Walker scored 20 of his 31 points in the first half to help Charlotte win at Detroit.The Hornets won their third in a row to keep their East playoff hopes alive. Charlotte and Miami are tied for ninth, a game behind Detroit. All three teams have two games left.RAPTORS 117, HEAT 109 Pascal Siakam had 23 points and 10 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard scored 22 points, and host Toronto won in overtime, further denting Miami’s fading playoff hopes.MAGIC 116, CELTICS 108 Terrence Ross had 26 points, Nikola Vucevic added 25 points and 12 rebounds, and Orlando rallied at Boston to clinch its first playoff berth in seven years.WARRIORS 131, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 27 points as Golden State clinched the Western Conference’s top seed, beating Los Angeles in the Warriors’ final regular-season game at Oracle Arena.3-POINTER RECORD James Harden scored 30 points in just three quarters as the Houston Rockets broke their N.B.A. record by making 27 3-pointers in a 149-113 home win against Phoenix. Eric Gordon led the way with eight 3-pointers, and Harden had five.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressKyrie Irving scored 37 points and the Boston Celtics rallied late in the fourth quarter to beat the Indiana Pacers by 99-91 on Wednesday night. The win gave Boston a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven, first-round seriesComing out of a timeout and with a chance to tie, the Pacers’ Wesley Matthews threw an inbounds pass into the bench on the other side of the court with 12.1 seconds left. On the ensuing play, the Celtics’ Al Horford passed to Jayson Tatum, who was fouled on a two-handed dunk. He completed the three-point play to make it 97-91 with 8.8 seconds left.The Pacers turned it over again and the Celtics were able to close out the game at the free throw line.Tatum scored 26 points, including a thunderous dunk down the stretch to help punctuate a 10-0 run by Boston over the final five minutes.[Read: Jayson Tatum has a daily reminder of the booming dunk he delivered on LeBron James last year.]Bojan Bogdanovic led Indiana with 23 points. Thaddeus Young added 15 points.Indiana led by 79-68 entering the fourth. Horford opened the final period scoring on a hook shot in the lane and Tyreke Evans responded with a 3-pointer on Indiana’s first possession.But then Boston caught fire, using a 16-0 run, including eight straight by Irving, to take an 86-82 lead with 5:04 to play. Indiana missed 10 straight shots during the run, finally breaking a nearly eight-minute scoring drought with a 3-pointer by Matthews in front of the Celtics’ bench.Horford had been a game-time decision with an illness, but was able to remain in the Celtics’ starting lineup. He was noticeably a step slower at the outset and didn’t take his first shot until late in the second quarter. He didn’t score his first points until the fourth, finishing with four points, 10 rebounds and four assists for the game.Game 3 is Friday in Indiana.BUCKS 120, PISTONS 99 Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points in Milwaukee’s big third quarter and the Bucks beat the Detroit Pistons, 120-99, on Wednesday night to take a 2-0 lead in the first-round playoff series.Eric Bledsoe led the Bucks with 27 points, and Khris Middleton had 24. Milwaukee is trying win a playoff series for the first time since 2001.Luke Kennard had 19 points for Detroit. Reggie Jackson and Andre Drummond each added 18, and Drummond had 16 rebounds. Detroit star Blake Griffin sat out again with a left knee injury, but received a technical for the second straight game for arguing from the bench.After scoring 10 points and playing only 14 minutes in the first half because of foul trouble, Antetokounmpo scored Milwaukee’s first seven points in the third quarter. The Bucks outscored Detroit 35-17 in the period to take a 93-76 lead into the fourth.Detroit clawed within seven in the fourth before the Bucks put it away, capped by a hard drive by Antetokounmpo on a break. He banked in an awkward reverse-angle shot while crashing to the floor after being fouled by Drummond. He competed the three-point play it make it 105-87.Game 3 is Saturday night in Detroit.GRIZZLIES HIRE EXECUTIVES The Memphis Grizzlies have hired Rich Cho as vice president of basketball strategy and Glen Grunwald as a senior adviser within the franchise’s basketball operations department.Cho is a former Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers general manager. Grunwald was general manager of the Knicks and the Toronto Raptors.Before coming to Portland, Cho was an assistant general manager with the Seattle SuperSonics and continued in that role when the franchise became the Oklahoma City Thunder. Grunwald worked with the Knicks from 2006-13, serving as executive vice president and general manager for the final two seasons of that stretch. He was Toronto’s general manager from 1997 to 2004.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressJaylen Brown scored 23 points and Kyrie Irving added 19 to help the Boston Celtics beat the host Indiana Pacers, 104-96, on Friday night for a 3-0 lead in the first-round Eastern Conference series.Irving also had 10 assists and 5 rebounds, and Jayson Tatum had 18 points and 7 rebounds for the Celtics, who can eliminate the Pacers on Sunday in Indianapolis.“We’re all making sure we’re giving each other confidence and doing the little things to ensure we win,” Irving said. “When you have that type of camaraderie, executing is a lot easier. Now that the stakes are higher, we’re settling into who we want to be.”Tyreke Evans matched his career playoff high with 19 points for Indiana, and Bojan Bogdanovic had 15, not enough to prevent the Pacers from losing their sixth straight to Boston in the regular season and the playoffs.The Celtics’ defense again turned the game, allowing just 12 points in the third quarter, as they put the Pacers on the brink of their second series sweep in three years.Indiana had erased a 15-point first half deficit to take a 61-59 halftime lead, and Myles Turner opened the third with a 3-pointer for the Pacers. But Boston charged back with 8 straight points to retake the lead and closed the quarter with a 9-2 run to make it 80-73.Boston gave up 8 points in the third quarter of Game 1 and 12 in the fourth quarter of Game 2.RAPTORS 98, MAGIC 83 Pascal Siakam had 30 points and 11 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard added 16 points, and Toronto held off host Orlando to take a 2-1 lead in their Eastern Conference first-round series.Siakam was 13 for 20 from the field, and the Raptors held Orlando to 36 percent shooting. Terrence Ross led Orlando with 24 points, and Nikola Vucevic shook off a slow start to finish with 22 points and 14 rebounds.Game 4 is Sunday night in Orlando.The Raptors trailed, 61-60, midway through the third quarter before going on a 16-0 run over the next four minutes to take the lead for good.Kyle Lowry’s 3-pointer with 7 minutes 48 seconds left gave Toronto its biggest lead, 86-69. The Magic rallied, and Ross’s 3-pointer with 41 seconds left cut the deficit to 96-93.Leonard was short with a jumper on the next possession, but the Magic could not control the rebound. Leonard made two free throws with 12.9 seconds remaining to make it a two-possession game again, and that closed the scoring.Orlando, which finished the regular season by winning 13 of its final 14 home games, was 13 of 44 from 3-point range.THUNDER 120, TRAIL BLAZERS 108 Russell Westbrook had 33 points and 11 assists and Oklahoma City won at home against Portland to cut its Western Conference series deficit to 2-1.Paul George added 22 points, Jerami Grant had 18 and Dennis Schroder 17 for the Thunder, who will host Game 4 on Sunday night.Damian Lillard scored 32 points for the Trail Blazers, but he had just 3 in the fourth quarter after scoring 25 in the third. C.J. McCollum had 21 points, and Enes Kanter added 19.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTiger Woods' win at the Masters is still a hot topic. PodcastOne Sports Now hosts Jim Litke and Tim Dahlberg look back at the memorable moment that transcended the sports world. Litke and Dahlberg also discuss what Woods may do next for his career and the sport with AP Golf Writer Doug Ferguson, who was honored last week for receiving the PGA Lifetime Achievement Award in Journalism.Guest host Larry Lage catches up with Mike Tirico of NBC Sports after he filled in as an announcer at the Masters for Westwood One Radio. Jemele Hill, a staff writer for The Atlantic and host of "Jemele Hill is Unbothered," shares her thoughts on Woods' comeback and the essay Kyle Korver of the Utah Jazz recently wrote about white privilege for The Players' Tribune.ESPN analyst Chauncey Billups wraps up the weekly podcast, talking about his admiration for Woods. The 2004 NBA champion also breaks down the NBA playoffs, recalls being part of the infamous brawl involving the Detroit Pistons, Indiana Pacers and fans nearly 15 years ago and says he wants to be an NBA general manager.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. PlayoffsBy The Associated PressThe Boston Celtics have been at their best this season when they are forcing turnovers, spacing the floor and knocking down outside shots.They found out in their win at home against the Pacers that they were equipped to win an ugly, physical game as well.Irving and Marcus Morris each scored 20 points, and the Celtics rallied in the second half to beat the Indiana Pacers, 84-74, on Sunday in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.Jayson Tatum finished with 15 points for fourth-seeded Boston, and Al Horford added 10 points and 11 rebounds, and Gordon Hayward had 10 points. It was the first playoff game since 2017 for Irving and Hayward after each missed last year’s postseason with injuries.“I just try to be aggressive on the ball, be in the right spots,” Irving said. “I just really want to be aggressive and really be the head of the snake.”Game 2 is Wednesday night in Boston.The fifth-seeded Pacers led by 11 points in the first half but had just 8 in the third quarter. The Celtics capitalized and led by as many as 22 in the fourth. Indiana finished with a season-worst 29 points in the second half.Cory Joseph had 14 points for the Pacers, and Bojan Bogdanovic was their lone starter in double figures with 12 points.Both teams shot worse than 40 percent from the field. Boston hit just 36 percent (28 of 77) and had 20 turnovers. Indiana connected on 33 percent of its shots (28 of 84) and turned the ball over 13 times.The Celtics’ 84 points were their fewest of the season; it was the first time Boston scored fewer than 100 points and won.“We held them to 84 points,” Indiana’s Wesley Matthews said. “We just didn’t score enough.”BUCKS 121, PISTONS 86 Giannis Antetokounmpo had 24 points and 17 rebounds in just 24 minutes, and top-seeded Milwaukee routed eighth-seeded Detroit in their East opener.Antetokounmpo ran and dunked all over the visiting Pistons, who caught him only when center Andre Drummond shoved him to the ground late in the third quarter after Antetokounmpo grabbed an offensive rebound with Detroit trailing by 41 points.Drummond was given a flagrant 2 foul and ejected. He threw a kiss to the Fiserv Forum crowd as he was escorted off the court.Antetokounmpo struggled at the free-throw line, making only five of 12 attempts, but was 9 for 17 from the field and 1 of 5 from 3-point range.Luke Kennard paced the Pistons with 21 points off the bench, and Drummond had 12 points and 12 rebounds. Detroit played without forward Blake Griffin, who has a left knee injury.TRAIL BLAZERS 104, THUNDER 99 Damian Lillard scored 30 points and third-seeded Portland opened its Western Conference series against sixth-seeded Oklahoma City Thunder with a win at home.Enes Kanter added 20 points and a career playoff-high 18 rebounds for the Blazers, who are making their sixth straight postseason appearance but had lost eight games in a row over the previous two postseasons. C J McCollum added 24 points.Russell Westbrook had 24 points, 10 assists and 10 rebounds for his ninth career postseason triple-double. Paul George, who was a game-time decision because of a sore shoulder, added 26 points and 10 rebounds after a slow start.Portland led by as many as 19 points in the first half, but the Thunder pulled to 80-77 early in the fourth quarter. Oklahoma City could not get closer, and Lillard hit a 30-footer to extend the Blazers’ lead to 89-81 with 6 minutes 38 seconds left.Westbrook appeared to hurt his right knee or ankle and grimaced while trying to walk it off. Trainers attended to him on the bench at the next timeout but he returned and his layup closed the gap to 91-87 with just under four minutes left.ROCKETS 122, JAZZ 90 James Harden had 29 points and 10 assists to help host Houston rout Utah on Sunday night in Game 1 of their Western Conference series.The fourth-seeded Rockets had a double-digit lead for most of the game, but the fifth-seeded Jazz pulled to 5 behind midway through the third quarter before Houston used a big run to pull away. Rudy Gobert had 22 points and 12 rebounds for the Jazz.It is the second consecutive year these teams have met in the postseason; Houston eliminated Utah in five games in the second round last season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersKyrie Irving had a hand in 11 of Boston's final 16 points Friday night as the Celtics withstood a late charge by the Indiana Pacers to record a 104-96 win at Indianapolis and go up 3-0 in an Eastern Conference first-round playoff matchup.The Pacers, playing at home for the first time in the series, got within 88-87 with 6:05, but that's when Irving took over.He had two hoops, assisted on 3- and 2-point baskets by Al Horford and made two free throws down the stretch, helping the Celtics pull away. He finished with 19 points and 10 assists. Jaylen Brown had 23 points to lead the Celtics, who held the Pacers under 100 points for the third consecutive game.Tyreke Evans led seven Pacers in double figures with 19 points off the bench.Thunder 120, Trail Blazers 108Russell Westbrook scored 33 points as Oklahoma City beat visiting Portland to take a two-games-to-one lead in a Western Conference first-round playoff series.After vowing to play better following the Thunder's Game 2 loss, Westbrook shot 11 of 22 from the floor while adding 11 assists and five rebounds. He also made 4 of 6 3-point attempts after sinking just 1 of 10 long-range attempts over the first two games.Portland's Damian Lillard had a quiet first half, scoring only four points on 2-of-6 shooting. However, Lillard dominated in Portland's 43-point third quarter, scoring 25 points to make a game of it. Lillard, who finished with a team-high 32 points, shot 8 of 11 from the floor in the third. But he did not score in the fourth until less than two minutes remained and the Thunder were ahead by 12.Raptors 98, Magic 93Pascal Siakam scored a playoff-career-best 30 points and grabbed 11 rebounds as visiting Toronto won in Orlando to take a 2-1 lead in their first-round Eastern Conference playoff series.Kawhi Leonard added 16 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors while Danny Green scored 13 points and Kyle Lowry had 12 points and 10 assists.Nikola Vucevic scored 22 points and grabbed 14 rebounds points for the Magic. Terrence Ross added 24 points, Jonathan Isaac scored 14, and Aaron Gordon had 10.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersJayson Tatum buried a go-ahead 3-pointer with 50.8 seconds remaining Wednesday night, allowing the host Boston Celtics to overcome a late Indiana Pacers flurry and pull out a 99-91 victory in Game 2 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.With the fourth-seeded Celtics having successfully held serve on their home court to go up 2-0 in the best-of-seven set, the fifth-seeded Pacers will host Games 3 and 4 on Friday night and Sunday afternoon.Indiana blew a 12-point, fourth-quarter lead. However, the Pacers appeared primed to even the series when Wesley Matthews and Bojan Bogdanovic combined for three 3-pointers in a 70-second spurt, allowing Indiana to retake a 91-89 advantage with 2:16 to go.But the Pacers didn't score again, and the Celtics finally did when Tatum drilled his third 3-pointer of the game for a one-point lead in the final minute. The Celtics scored the game's final 10 points.Rockets 118, Jazz 98James Harden posted his third career postseason triple-double, and Houston recorded another rout of visiting Utah in Game 2 of a Western Conference first-round series.Harden totaled 32 points, 13 rebounds and 10 assists in the wire-to-wire victory. After Utah utilized an unorthodox defensive approach against Harden in the series opener, Harden exploded for 25 first-half points Wednesday on 8-of-15 shooting, including 5-of-9 accuracy on 3-point attempts.He finished 11 of 24 from the floor, 6 of 13 from long distance. Harden, however, did commit a game-high eight turnovers. The Rockets will take a 2-0 series lead to Salt Lake City for Game 3 on Saturday.Bucks 120, Pistons 99Giannis Antetokounmpo sparked the decisive run in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference first-round series, scoring Milwaukee's first seven points of the second half in a win over visiting Detroit.The top-seeded Bucks lead the best-of-seven series two games to none. Game 3 is scheduled for Saturday in Detroit, where the eighth-seeded Pistons will try to snap a 12-game postseason losing streak that dates back to 2008. That's tied for the second-longest postseason losing streak in NBA history, behind only the New York Knicks' 13 consecutive losses from 2001-12.Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points during a third quarter in which the Bucks outscored the Pistons 35-17. He also grabbed a team-high 12 rebounds.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressINDIANAPOLIS — D'Angelo Russell scored 20 points and Joe Harris added 19 on Sunday, leading the Brooklyn Nets to a 108-96 victory over the Indiana Pacers and back into the NBA playoffs for the first time in four years.The Nets moved into position to clinch when Miami lost in overtime at Toronto earlier in the day. It's also the first time since 2014-15 the Nets have not posted a losing record.Domantas Sabonis finished with 17 points and 12 rebounds to lead the Pacers. Thaddeus Young scored 16 in a game coach Nate McMillan promised to closely monitor the minutes his players logged.And Brooklyn wasted no time in taking full advantage of that opportunity to end the NBA's sixth-longest active playoff drought.The Nets scored the first nine points and forced three turnovers in less than two minutes, an early barrage that forced Indiana to spend most of the game playing catch-up.Twice the Pacers took the lead on 3-pointers, from Myles Turner and Wesley Matthews, but Russell answered the second one with a 9-footer to give Brooklyn a 19-18 lead with 4:19 left in the first quarter.Indiana never led again.Instead, the Nets steadily extended the lead. They were up 52-44 at the half, scored the last seven points of the third quarter to make it 82-69 and used two 3s early in the fourth to build a 95-78 cushion.TIP-INSNets: Also ended a nine-game losing streak in the series and a seven-game losing streak at Indiana to avoid a second straight season sweep. ... Caris LeVert finished with 18 points while Spencer Dinwiddie and Jarrett Allen each scored 12. Dinwiddie had six assists. Allen had eight rebounds. ... Brooklyn was 11 of 36 on 3s, moving within 16 of breaking the franchise record (1,041) set last season. ... The Nets had a 52-33 rebounding advantage including a 17-5 edge in offensive rebounds. ... Russell's streak of four straight games with 25 or more points ended. ... DeMarre Carroll left midway through the third quarter and headed to the locker room with an undisclosed injury. He did not return to the game.Pacers: Have lost five of seven and their last two home games to fall to close out the regular season at 29-12 at home. ... Sabonis recorded his 30th double-double of the season. ... Bojan Bogdanovic had 13 points, while Cory Joseph added 12. ... Myles Turner finished with six points, four rebounds and three blocks before leaving with a sore right ankle midway through the third quarter. He did not return. ... Darren Collison was 2 of 12 from the field and missed all four of his 3-pointers after missing the previous three games with an injured groin. He had four points and six assists.UP NEXTNets: Will celebrate their playoff berth by closing the regular season at home against Miami on Wednesday.Pacers: Can pick up their first season sweep of the Hawks since 2004-05 with a win at Atlanta on Wednesday.__Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Bradley Beal became the first player in Washington Wizards franchise history to average at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists for a season, reaching the numbers he needed in a 116-110 loss to the playoff-bound Boston Celtics in a finale Tuesday night that was meaningless to both clubs.Eliminated a while ago and bound for the draft lottery, the Wizards wound up 32-50, their most losses since going 29-53 in 2012-13. Team president Ernie Grunfeld was fired last week after 16 years in charge.John Wall and Dwight Howard both missed most of the season with injuries.Beal, a two-time All-Star, finished with 16 points, five rebounds and four assists — all before halftime — on Tuesday as he played in all 82 games for the second consecutive season.The Celtics already were assured of finishing as the No. 4 team in the Eastern Conference and facing the No. 5-seeded Indiana Pacers in the first round of the playoffs. They finished 49-33.So there was no reason for Boston to care about the outcome Tuesday — or, therefore, use any of its best players.Seven prominent members of the roster were ruled out: Kyrie Irving, Jayson Tatum, Gordon Hayward, Al Horford, Marcus Smart, Aron Baynes and Marcus Morris. That group includes six of the top seven Celtics in scoring and assists, the club's six leading rebounders.The starting lineup was Jaylen Brown, Terry Rozier, Semi Ojeleye, Guerschon Yabusele and Robert Williams. Ojele, Yabusele and Williams had a combined three starts this season before Tuesday.TIP-INSCeltics: Rozier scored 21 points. ... Signed G Jonathan Gibson. He played four games for Boston last season. "He gets buckets," coach Brad Stevens said.Wizards: Tomas Satoransky scored 19 points. ... Signed Gs Jordan McRae and Tarik Phillip. McRae was on a two-way contract this season, when he averaged 5.9 points, 1.5 rebounds and 1.1 assists in 27 games for the Wizards and led the NBA G League in scoring at 30.4 ppg for the Capital City Go-Go. Phillip played for the Memphis Hustle in the G League.WALL SPEAKSWizards PG Wall says he is not sure whether he will be able to play next season as he recovers from a torn Achilles tendon. "I have no idea just yet," Wall told reporters at halftime. "That's my goal."STEVENS ON VIRGINIA, BENNETTStevens, who led Butler to two runner-up finishes in the NCAA Tournament, was asked for his reaction to seeing coach Tony Bennett and Virginia go from last year's disaster — the first No. 1 seed to lose to a 16 — to this year's championship. "One of the coolest things I think I've seen in sports was Tony Bennett's reaction when they got beat last year and the way that he handled it," Stevens said. "And then to back that up with the year they had ... and for all those kids and for him and for everybody associated with the program to win all those games in the fashion that they did. ... Tony is a good friend and I am thrilled for him and for college basketball. I think he's about all the good stuff."UP NEXT:Celtics: Game 1 of their first-round series against the Pacers will be in Boston; day and time to be announced.Wizards: Season over. Time for a GM search and a rebuild.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHere are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressChris Mullin stepped down as the men’s basketball coach at St. John’s on Tuesday after four years on the job, citing a personal loss.Mike Cragg, the St. John’s athletic director, announced the decision, saying the team had “progressed well” and noting Mullin’s “deep passion for this program.” Cragg did not give an explanation for the move.Without elaborating, Mullin said in a separate statement that he had suffered a “recent personal loss.” His older brother, Roddy, a former Siena basketball player, died last month at 58 after battling cancer for years.Mullin, 55, had two years remaining on his contract, and he had just completed his only winning season and only trip to the N.C.A.A. tournament as the St. John’s coach, losing to Arizona State in the First Four.Mullin, the greatest player in St. John’s history, said his decision had been extremely emotional.“I took time to reflect upon my true values and believe this is the right time to make a change,” Mullin said in the statement. “I am extremely grateful to the administration, which has supported me and our basketball program on every level.”Cragg said St. John’s would pursue an experienced coach “committed to building a championship-level program” and “ready to build upon the recent successes of our program with integrity by recruiting young men of high character.”Bobby Hurley, a New Jersey native who is Arizona State’s coach, is reportedly considered a top candidate to replace Mullin. Hurley was a star point guard at Duke, where Cragg spent more than three decades as an administrator before being hired by St. John’s in September.The Red Storm went 59-73 under Mullin, including 20-52 in the Big East Conference, after he replaced Steve Lavin in March 2015 and embarked on a substantial rebuild.Bobby Gempesaw, the president of St. John’s, said that because of Mullin the “university community has grown closer, there has been excitement throughout campus.”Led by guard Shamorie Ponds and several talented transfers, the Red Storm won their first 12 games this past season for their best start since 1982-83, when Mullin was a sophomore. They cracked The Associated Press Top 25 poll for the first time in four years but faded down the stretch, losing five of their final six games and six of the last eight to finish at 21-13.Once a national power, the St. John’s program has not won an N.C.A.A. tournament game since 2000.After the season-ending loss to Arizona State, Ponds announced that he would pass up his senior season to enter the N.B.A. draft. Also the team’s top recruiter, Matt Abdelmassih, left for a job at Nebraska, and Cam Mack, a junior college point guard, asked to be released from the national letter of intent he had signed with St. John’s.Mullin, a two-time Olympic gold medalist and a member of the Basketball Hall of Fame, led St. John’s to the 1985 Final Four and remains the school’s career scoring leader. Born in Brooklyn, he was a five-time All-Star during his 16 seasons in the N.B.A., with the Golden State Warriors and the Indiana Pacers.Before taking the job at his alma mater to much fanfare, Mullin had no head coaching experience. He had been an N.B.A. executive, serving as general manager of the Warriors and a special adviser with the Sacramento Kings. His coaching tenure was highlighted by consecutive victories over top-five teams in February 2018: Duke and No. 1 Villanova, the eventual national champion.St. John’s still ranks among the top 10 N.C.A.A. Division I men’s teams in wins, though the school has not advanced beyond the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament since 2000.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCount Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James among those who were stunned by team president Magic Johnson's resignation on Tuesday night. But according to ESPN's Ramona Shelburne on Wednesday, James still stands behind the organization and Lakers owner Jeanie Buss.ESPN also reported that head coach Luke Walton participated in exit meetings with the players on Wednesday. Walton's job security is in jeopardy after the Lakers (37-45) missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season despite the offseason signing of James to a four-year, $154 million deal.James, 34, battled injuries and appeared in a career-low 55 games and averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists per game in 2018-19.--Following his meeting with Walton, James headed to New York, where he, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony watched Dwyane Wade play his final NBA game. The Miami Heat closed out the season against the Brooklyn Nets.After a pregame video tribute to Wade, the retiring superstar went over and hugged each of his three friends. The four have been friends for years, their bond immortalized by a photo of James, Wade and Paul riding a banana boat together while on vacation in 2015. Anthony was not in the picture but was also on vacation with the group.--Boston Celtics guard Marcus Smart has a torn left oblique and could miss the first two rounds of the Eastern Conference playoffs, according to a report from ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski.Smart averaged 8.9 points, 4.0 assists and 2.9 rebounds this season for the Celtics, who will be the fourth seed in the East after posting a 49-33 regular-season record. Boston will open at home this weekend against the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers. The physical guard is noted as one of the NBA's top defenders.Smart sustained the injury in a game against the Orlando Magic on Sunday, and he did not play in Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.--Anthony Davis acknowledged that despite his desire to leave New Orleans, he could begin the 2019-20 season with the Pelicans."I'm under contract still," Davis said during an informal season-ending news conference. "I have a year left. Obviously it's a possibility it could happen. I don't have ill will toward anybody. I know that it's a possibility that next year I could be here as well. So I can't be mad if I'm here next year."Davis said his next step will be to see who emerges as the general manager for the Pelicans. Dell Demps was fired in February after his handling of the Davis situation, and Danny Ferry is the interim general manager.--The Phoenix Suns have hired longtime NBA general manager Jeff Bower as their vice president of operations, Wojnarowski reported.Bower, 57, was general manager of the then-New Orleans Hornets from October 2005 to July 2010, and he also served as the team's head coach for most of the 2009-10 season after the firing of Byron Scott.The Suns have been without a general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.--The Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.Saunders, 32, is the youngest head coach in the league. He took over when Tom Thibodeau was fired in early January and has earned the endorsement of his players, most notably from All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.The Timberwolves were 36-45 entering Wednesday night's season finale at Denver, including a 17-24 mark under Saunders' leadership. Saunders reportedly will receive a three-year deal with a team option on the final season.--The Timberwolves also announced that guard Jeff Teague underwent successful debridement surgery Tuesday to clean out his left ankle. The team had no additional updates as to any recovery timetable.Teague played in 42 games for the Minnesota this season, averaging 12.1 points and a career-best 8.2 assists in 30.1 minutes. The team shut him down for the season in mid-March.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOSTON — A poor third quarter did the Indiana Pacers in during Game 1 of their first-round series with the Boston Celtics.In Game 2, Boston seized on a fourth-quarter collapse by Indiana.Kyrie Irving scored 37 points and Boston rallied late in the fourth quarter to beat Indiana 99-91 Wednesday night and take a 2-0 lead in the best-of-seven series.Coming out of a timeout and with a chance for Indiana to tie, the Pacers' Wesley Matthews threw an inbounds pass into the bench on the other side of the court with 12.1 seconds left. On the ensuing play, the Celtics' Al Horford passed to Jayson Tatum, who was fouled on a two-handed dunk. He completed the three-point play to make it 97-91 with 8.8 seconds left.The Pacers turned it over again and the Celtics were able to close out the game at the free throw line.Tatum scored 26 points, including his thunderous dunk down the stretch to help punctuate a 10-0 run by Boston over the final five minutes.Irving said being able to have this kind of performance at TD Garden after sitting out the playoffs last season wasn't lost on him."It's just been a long journey," Irving said. "From having those two knee surgeries and watching the team last year and finally getting chance to lace them up for the Boston Celtics in the NBA playoffs — it's nothing like it."After scoring only eight points in the third quarter of Game 1, the Pacers scored only 12 points in the fourth of Game 2."It's always been one quarter that kills us in the second half," Thaddeus Young said. "We're getting good looks and shots are not falling. ... We gotta put together a 48-minute game and we haven't been able to that."Bojan Bogdanovic led Indiana with 23 points. Young added 15 points. Myles Turner finished with six blocks.Game 3 is Friday in Indiana.Darren Collison scored seven points during a 10-0 run that gave the Pacers a 70-58 lead in the third quarter as turnovers began to pile up for the Celtics.Indiana led 79-68 entering the fourth. Horford opened the final period scoring on a hook shot in the lane and Tyreke Evans responded with a 3-pointer on Indiana's first possession.But then Boston got hot, using a 16-0 run, including eight straight by Irving, to take an 86-82 lead with 5:04 to play. Indiana missed 10 straight shots during the run, finally breaking a nearly eight-minute scoring drought with a 3-pointer by Matthews in front of the Celtics' bench.Bogdanovic hit a 3-pointer from virtually the same spot as Matthews to put the Pacers back in front. Gordon Hayward responded with a jumper, before Bogdanovic hit another 3 over Horford that made it 91-89 Pacers with 2:16 remaining.Following an Indiana miss, Tatum connected on a 3-pointer from the corner. And after Horford blocked Bogdanovic at the rim, Tatum found a cutting Hayward for a layup and the Pacers were undone by their late turnovers."Missed a couple of good looks. Held them under a 100. The defense was still there. They made more timely baskets than we did," Matthews said.Horford was a game-time decision with an illness but was able to remain in the Celtics' starting lineup. He was noticeably a step slower at the outset and didn't' take his first shot until late in the second quarter. He didn't score his first points until the fourth, finishing with four points, 10 rebounds and four assists for the game."It wasn't just about putting points on the board, it was just about doing the little things," Irving said. "It was a gritty win."TIP-INSPacers: Were outrebounded for the second straight game 41-32.Celtics: Coach Brad Stevens received a technical foul in the third quarter. It marked just was just third of the season.BETTER STARTAfter both teams struggled from the field in Game 1, they combined to hit 10 straight shots to open Game 2.The Pacers shot 65 percent in the first quarter, but were just 7 for 20 from the field and 0 for 7 from beyond the 3-point arc in the second. The Celtics seized on it, outscoring them 23-17 in the quarter and taking a 52-50 halftime lead.PATRIOT SUPPORTSeveral New England Patriots were in attendance for Game 2. Among those in attendance were coach Bill Belichick, reigning Super Bowl MVP Julian Edelman, Devin and Jason McCourty, Sony Michel and Duron Harmon.UP NEXTThe series shifts to Indianapolis for Game 3 on Friday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOSTON — The Celtics have been at their best this season when they are forcing turnovers, spacing the floor and knocking down outside shots.They found out in their Game 1 win over the Pacers that they are equipped to win an ugly, physical game as well.Irving and Marcus Morris each scored 20 points, and the Boston rallied in the second half to the beat Indiana Pacers 84-74 on Sunday in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.Jayson Tatum finished with 15 points. Al Horford added 10 points and 11 rebounds, and Gordon Hayward had 10 points. It was the first playoff game since 2017 for Irving and Hayward after each missed last year's postseason with injuries."I just try to be aggressive on the ball, be in the right spots," Irving said. "I just really want to be aggressive and really be the head of the snake."Game 2 is Wednesday night in Boston.The Pacers led by 11 points in the first half but had just eight points in the third quarter. The Celtics capitalized and led by as many as 22 in the fourth. The 29 points that Indiana scored in the second half were its worst of the season.Cory Joseph had 14 points for the Pacers. Bojan Bogdanovic was the lone Pacers starter in double figures with 12 points.Both teams shot under 40 percent for the game. Boston hit just 36% (28 of 77) and had 20 turnovers. Indiana connected on 33% of its shots (28 of 84) and turned it over 13 times.The Celtics' 84 points were their fewest of the season and marked the first time they scored fewer than 100 points and won."We held them to 84 points. We just didn't score enough," Indiana's Wesley Matthews said.Celtics coach Brad Stevens and Pacers coach Nate McMillan both said before the series that the more physical team would have the edge.After a shaky start, it turned out to be Boston.Boston opened the third quarter with a 22-3 run to take a 60-48 lead. The Pacers didn't get their first field goal of the second half until Joseph dropped in a layup with 3:38 left in the third. They finished the quarter 2 for 19 from the field."I thought we kind of lost our way," McMillan said. "They got the momentum and really never let that go."Likewise, Stevens said his team found something in that quarter."They missed some shots, but we were really connected," he said. "We were really playing hard. We were really flying around."TIP-INSPacers: Went 12 of 21 from the free throw line (57.Celtics: Outrebounded the Pacers 55-42.TURNING POINTBoston's run included a brief appearance by Celtics Hall of Famer and former Pacers front office executive Larry Bird, who was shown on the big screen during a timeout.The period ended with Terry Rozier connecting on an acrobatic 3-pointer with 0.1 seconds remaining to put the Celtics ahead 64-53. The lead grew to 84-62 on a 3-pointer by Tatum with 3:34 remaining.Stevens went with Jaylen Brown in the starting lineup in place of Marcus Smart, who is out with a torn left oblique.But after Boston committed four turnovers in the first four minutes of the game, Stevens quickly adjusted, inserting Morris and Hayward.The change paid off with Morris going 3 of 4 in the period, including two 3-pointers, and scoring 12 points. No other Celtics player had more than two points.While his team was able to recover from a dismal start, Stevens said the Pacers' defense deserved credit for making things difficult on them throughout the game."Those guys guarded their butts off," Stevens said. "That game looked like a 1980s playoff game in a lot of ways with the score. But it's tough. Those guys are physical. ...We have a lot to get better at."BIG DAYIn his first playoff game as a Celtic, Irving became just third player in franchise history to have 20-plus points, five-plus assists and five-plus rebounds in his postseason debut with the team. He joined Isaiah Thomas in 2015 and JoJo White in 1972.PATRIOTS' KRAFT COURTSIDEPatriots team owner Robert Kraft sat courtside beside Celtics co-owner Wyc Grousbeck. Kraft was charged with two counts of solicitation in January after police said he twice paid to have sex with employees at a Florida spa.UP NEXTBoston hosts Game 2 on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherTwo top N.B.A. teams battling into double overtime. Memorable individual performances. And points, points, points. Thursday night’s game between the San Antonio Spurs and the Oklahoma City Thunder set a handful of records, but it was the Spurs who won, 154-147.LaMarcus Aldridge had his best night. Although he has averaged 20 points or more regularly, and frequently winds up in the 30s and 40s, Aldridge had never scored 50 points in an N.B.A. game until Thursday. And at halftime, it didn’t look as if Thursday would be the night, either; Aldridge had only 14 points. But a strong second half took him to 43, and the two overtimes gave him the extra minutes he needed to reach 56, a new career high.He tallied the 56 with six layups, three dunks, 11 midrange shots and 16 free throws. Notably, the 6-foot-11 Aldridge attempted no 3-pointers, which have powered most of the recent record-setting offensive performances in the modern N.B.A. (That was not surprising; Aldridge is only 2 for 14 on the year from distance.) Still, in padding his scoring in 1s and 2s, Aldridge became the first player to score 50 points without attempting a 3-pointer since Jermaine O’Neal had 55 for the Indiana Pacers in 2005.It was the most points by a Spurs player since David Robinson scored 71 in 1994, and the most against the Thunder franchise since Tom Chambers of the Suns poured in 60 against the team — then still the Seattle SuperSonics — in 1990.It wasn’t just the field goals. Aldridge was 16 of 16 on free throws, ranking second this season for perfection from the line. (James Harden had a 19-of-19 performance against the Detroit Pistons in November.) He also pitched in on defense, blocking four Thunder shots.“Well, he’s been a beast all year long,” Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich told ESPN after the game. “He anchors us on both ends of the floor.”As one might expect, Aldridge took a lot of shots in posting his big number. His 33 attempts were the most for a Spurs player since Tony Parker took 36 shots in a game in 2008.The other Spurs couldn’t miss from 3. While Aldridge stayed mostly down low, his teammates fired away from behind the 3-point line with almost superhuman accuracy, making 16 of 19 attempts. Their percentage, .842, was the highest ever for a team that took at least 10 3-pointers in a game, surpassing a 14-of-17 (.824) performance by the Chicago Bulls in 2005. It was a balanced attack, too, with Marco Belinelli going 5 for 5, Davis Bertans 4 for 4 and Bryn Forbes 3 for 3.The Thunder challenged some records of their own. Russell Westbrook had 24 assists in the loss, the second-highest total of the century, trailing only Rajon Rondo’s 25 for the Pelicans last season. That was part of a triple-double: Westbrook also had 24 points and 13 rebounds. That particular combination of at least 20 points, 10 rebounds and 20 assists is a rarity; it has been done only 12 times in the N.B.A. since 1960, and only one other time this century, in 2016 — by Westbrook.The scoreboard took a pounding. The combined 301 points in the game was the most since 2006, when the Suns and Nets combined to put up 318 in a double-overtime game. The Spurs’ 154 points were the most they had scored in a game since 1990.Both teams will enjoy a day off Friday, then suit up again on Saturday — in a rematch in Oklahoma City. Based on Thursday’s performances, that suddenly has become one of the most anticipated regular-season games in years.An earlier version of this article gave incorrect historical context for one superlative for LaMarcus Aldridge. He scored the most points by a Spur since David Robinson in 1994, not since George Gervin in 1978.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Sopan DebBOSTON — Jayson Tatum boomed on LeBron James in last year’s N.B.A. playoffs. You may remember it. Tatum, the 21-year-old swingman for the Boston Celtics, certainly does.The dunk drew a “wow” from the play-by-play broadcaster Mike Breen. A reporter wrote on Twitter that in the locker room afterward, he overheard James saying that Tatum had “boomed” him, before James repeated four times, “He’s so good.”“I’ve got a big-ass picture of it in my house,” Tatum said in a post-practice interview on Tuesday.The dunk came in the fourth quarter of Game 7 of last year’s Eastern Conference finals. Starting from outside the 3-point line, Tatum took two dribbles with his left hand to get to the rim before hammering a right-handed dunk past James, who attempted a block as a helpless defender. Tatum followed the booming with a chest bump of James, one of his boyhood idols, as if to say, “I’m here.”The Celtics lost that game, but the dunk solidified Tatum, who played one season at Duke, as an emerging N.B.A. star.After the Celtics’ disappointing regular-season run this season, Tatum’s star hasn’t been as bright so far in these playoffs as Boston faces the Indiana Pacers in the first round. He did not make the leap many had thought he would: While he improved as a rebounder and passer, his shot selection led to more long 2-pointers, causing his true shooting percentage to dip from .586 in his rookie campaign to .547 this year, placing him below .560, the league average.He increased his frequency of midrange jumpers but decreased his accuracy in making them: 37 percent, down from 44 percent. Many of his advanced metric statistics, including win shares per 48 minutes, value over replacement player and box plus/minus, were worse this year.Tatum finds himself in an unusual spot, compared with fellow N.B.A. sophomores like Utah’s Donovan Mitchell and Philadelphia’s Ben Simmons. The better Tatum plays, especially in this postseason, the more likely he is to be linked to trade rumors, particularly those involving Anthony Davis, the New Orleans Pelicans star who has requested a trade that could shift the competitive balance in the N.B.A.Several college starters in this year’s Final Four were older than Tatum. But if he cannot live up to the hype he created in last year’s playoffs — that is, if he becomes just another guard — the Pelicans may be more likely to accept a package from the Los Angeles Lakers or another team besides Boston. At the same time, if Celtics point guard Kyrie Irving opts for free agency this summer, the future of the franchise may rest on Tatum’s shoulders. At barely 21, he’d be the alpha.Tatum’s future is more uncertain than many other players who have received significant early acclaim. But one way or another, the Celtics need Tatum to be great. Not just for this year’s playoffs, but for the future.In short, they need him to boom.In a conversation at the Celtics’ practice facility about his future and the atypical stakes, Tatum had talking points at the ready, ones that he had delivered multiple times before. He stared straight ahead, not making eye contact, as if he were running through the script in his head.“Trade rumors don’t bother me,” he said in his deep monotone. “They’re talking about trading me for guys like Anthony Davis. So, I mean, I must be doing something pretty well.” When pressed on whether this bothered him, he didn’t budge: “I love the game of basketball. Being traded is part of the game. I’ll play for whomever. It’s something I can’t control.”He didn’t have much more to say than that. But that is Tatum’s personality, Brad Stevens, the Celtics’ head coach, said. No distractions. That, Stevens said, is his best quality.“Circumstances don’t affect him,” Stevens said. “First game of the season, he’s unaffected by the jitters that everybody has. Seventh game of a playoff series? Unaffected. At least, he shows himself to be unaffected, and he can thrive in that environment.”Stevens said Tatum’s quality of play had improved as he got deeper into the season. He became a better passer, averaging 2.8 assists after the All-Star break, compared with 1.9 before. But his shooting dipped, from 38 percent from deep before the break to 35 percent afterward.Last season, Tatum benefited from the low expectations for the Celtics after injuries to Irving, forward Gordon Hayward and the reserve center Daniel Theis. But he also helped carry Boston to within one win of an unlikely N.B.A. finals appearance. This year, “unlikely” is not in the playoff vocabulary. The Celtics are supposed to get there. And Boston’s fans, never the most positive bunch, can turn on a player in a second. If the Celtics do not advance, after many analysts predicted they would, fans may view Tatum’s season in a harsh light, given how much of the franchise’s fortunes are tied up with him.Tatum said he was not as nervous about the playoffs this time around. Taking a daily pregame nap with his 16-month-old son has helped. The early returns have been positive: In the first game of the series against the Pacers, Tatum scored 15 points on 11 shots. He was plus-11 in 34 minutes as the Celtics ran away with a win. In Game 2, Tatum was even better. He scored 26 points on 20 shots, including multiple thunderous dunks in the fourth quarter, helping Boston take a 2-0 lead in the series.But there hasn’t been a highlight that has matched the dunk on James. Tatum shook his head no when asked if he had ever talked to James about that play. A hint of a grin betrayed his practiced demeanor.“They won, so they got the last laugh,” Tatum said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressORLANDO, Fla. — The stars have been stars in these playoffs.Kyrie Irving has Boston on the cusp of sweeping away Indiana Pacers. Kevin Durant, Stephen Curry and Golden State are coming off a game against the Los Angeles Clippers where the Warriors looked very much like the NBA champions again. Damian Lillard and Russell Westbrook are going at each other big-time in the Portland-Oklahoma City series.And then there's Pascal Siakam.Toronto's surprise story is no surprise anymore.Siakam has been perhaps the biggest breakout player in these playoffs, adding to his breakout season for the Raptors — who lead the Orlando Magic 2-1 in their first-round matchup thanks largely to the 25-year-old from Cameroon and his 24.3 points and 10 rebounds per game in the series.It's easy to forget that Siakam only started playing organized basketball seven years ago."Seriously?" Raptors guard Danny Green asked, unaware of his teammate's unique background.Seriously.Raptors coach Nick Nurse was amused by a recent question suggesting the Siakam was the team's third option offensively behind Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry. Nurse said the way Toronto sees it, Siakam — "Spicy P" is what they call him in Toronto, and the team sent out bottles of hot sauce with his face on the box to NBA awards voters as part of his Most Improved Player campaign — has really been the second option all season.At times in these playoffs, he's been the first option. In other words, a star is being born."Hey, look, he was terrific," Magic coach Steve Clifford said after Siakam's 30-point, 11-rebound effort in Game 3.There's four games on tap Sunday: Boston has a 3-0 lead and can become the first team to advance to the second round if it wins at Indiana. All three other series on the schedule — Golden State at the Los Angeles Clippers, Toronto at Orlando and Portland at Oklahoma City — have the road teams leading 2-1 and in position to all go home for potential closeout wins if they get victories on Sunday.Here's a look at Sunday's games:CELTICS AT PACERSCeltics lead 3-0. Game 4, 1 p.m. EDT, ABCNEED TO KNOW: Boston is seeking its first series sweep since 2011, when it rolled past the Knicks. The Celtics' other 4-0 sweeps came in 1959, 1980, 1981 and 1986. The Pacers are trying to avoid a fourth straight first-round exit and their second 4-0 loss in three years.KEEP AN EYE ON: Pacers starting forwards Bojan Bogdanovic and Thaddeus Young will be free agents this summer. Might this be their finales in Indiana?INJURY WATCH: Pacers star Victor Oladipo, out since January with a right knee injury, is expected to be at Game 4. He was going to fly in for Game 3, but was delayed by weather.PRESSURE IS ON: Boston. There's no pressure on Indiana; no one has come from 3-0 down to win a series, so the Pacers won't be expected to change that. Boston is playing for more rest before facing the Milwaukee-Detroit winner.WARRIORS AT CLIPPERSWarriors lead 2-1. Game 4, 3:30 p.m. EDT, ABCNEED TO KNOW: Golden State sent a very clear message in Game 3, blowing out Los Angeles by 27 with only one starter logging more than 30 minutes. And the Clippers have allowed a staggering 129.7 points in their last six games (going 2-4).KEEP AN EYE ON: The Clippers' first unit. Lou Williams and Montrezl Harrell are great off the bench and play starters' minutes, so this is somewhat misleading, but Doc Rivers can't have just one starter in double figures — as was the case in Game 2.INJURY WATCH: Andrew Bogut had eight points, 14 rebounds and five assists in his first game as DeMarcus Cousins' replacement for the Warriors.PRESSURE IS ON: Patrick Beverley. The Clippers' point guard is unquestionably tough, but four fouls and five shots in 18 minutes — like he had in Game 3 on Thursday — won't cut it again.RAPTORS AT MAGICRaptors lead 2-1. Game 4, 7 p.m. EDT, TNTNEED TO KNOW: Entering Saturday, three players in these playoffs — Stephen Curry, James Harden and Pascal Siakam — had a 30-point double-double. Curry and Harden made a combined $68 million this season. Siakam made about $1.5 million.KEEP AN EYE ON: Orlando guard Evan Fournier is 12 for 42 in this series and was 1 for 12 in Game 3. Among players with at least 10 shot attempts, there's been only five instances in Magic history where someone shot worse in a home game.INJURY WATCH: Bad news for Orlando: Toronto's Kawhi Leonard was ailing for Game 3 with an illness, which may explain some of his 6-for-19 shooting effort. He's expected to feel better Sunday.PRESSURE IS ON: Orlando's starters. Toronto opened on an 11-0 run (and 16-2) in Game 2 and a 10-0 run in Game 3. Another occurrence of that in Game 4 would be trouble.TRAIL BLAZERS AT THUNDERTrail Blazers lead 2-1. Game 4, 9:30 p.m. EDT, TNTNEED TO KNOW: Oklahoma City clearly got its swagger back in Game 3. And Portland needs to buck this history: The Trail Blazers are 0-7 in their last seven playoff games immediately following a loss.KEEP AN EYE ON: The Damian Lillard-Russell Westbrook matchup is the premier head-to-head tussle so far in these playoffs. Lillard's 25-point third quarter in Game 3 was phenomenal, but the Thunder held him to seven points in the other three quarters.INJURY WATCH: Thunder forward Paul George struggled with his shot again in Game 3 — a season-worst 3 for 16, raising questions about his troublesome right shoulder. But he got to the line 17 times, making 14, so he's clearly not shying from contact.PRESSURE IS ON: Portland's defense. Trail Blazer fouls sent the Thunder on the foul line 39 times in Game 3.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaPaul George has a small freshwater pond behind his house in Oklahoma City that he stocks with bass, crappie and bluegill. Whenever he has a couple of hours to spare from his responsibilities as a do-everything forward for the N.B.A.’s Thunder, he heads out back with his fishing rod. He releases what he catches — for now, anyway.“Waiting for them to get a little bigger,” he said.George has time. Last summer, on the first night of free agency, he agreed to re-sign with the Thunder on a four-year, $137 million deal. The news emanated from a house party that Russell Westbrook, his superstar teammate, was hosting for George, who did not even entertain meetings with rival teams. He was sticking with the Thunder.In doing so, George made clear that he was banking on his partnership with Westbrook while offering endorsements of the organization and of Oklahoma City’s leisurely pace. He can fish. He can raise his two young children in a quiet neighborhood. And he can focus on basketball, knowing that his future is with the Thunder.“You can give your everything to one organization, and you know the direction that you’re going,” George said in a recent interview. “There’s so much that players have to deal with that I don’t think people quite recognize. A lot of them are the same issues that everybody else deals with. But this takes a lot of the burden off my shoulders.”There is something to be said for (relatively) stress-free living. As several other stars careen toward free agency this summer — and grapple with the accompanying distractions with varying degrees of success — George, 28, has been playing the best basketball of his life.He is averaging 28.2 points, 8.1 rebounds and 4.2 assists, all career highs, while shooting 44 percent from the field and 39.1 percent from 3-point range. He is at least in the conversation for his first N.B.A. Most Valuable Player Award.“I think the shift I’ve seen,” Coach Billy Donovan said, “is a guy who’s a lot more comfortable.”George has been limited recently by shoulder soreness, and Oklahoma City has slipped a bit in the standings. But the Thunder are capable of being a force in the playoffs, and they appear to be a close-knit group. One reason: Oklahoma City is not exactly flush with “extracurriculars,” as George put it, so the players tend to linger at the practice facility. They spend a lot of time together, which has helped build chemistry.“And if one person has to go do something, there’s always someone else who’s like, ‘I’ll tag along with you,’” George said. “That’s kind of been the culture here.”George was traded to the Thunder before the start of last season, after he told the Indiana Pacers that he would not sign a contract extension. Most figured that Oklahoma City would be a pit stop for George, who grew up in Palmdale, Calif., about 50 miles north of Los Angeles. More to the point: He had told the Pacers that he wanted to be shipped to the Lakers.Indiana balked and instead dealt him to Oklahoma City, where George averaged 21.9 points and 5.7 rebounds last season. After Oklahoma City lost in the first round of the playoffs, George was a free agent. He could have gone nearly anywhere, including to the Lakers.“I had so many phone calls and people asking me what he would do when it was all still up in the air,” Tom Hegre, his former coach at Knight High School, said in a telephone interview. “But I personally felt that he would stay with the Thunder. I just didn’t think he would bail on something before he gave it a legitimate chance.”Hegre also said he suspected that Oklahoma City itself had something to do with George’s decision. Even now, after six All-Star appearances, George is a small-town guy and a self-described “homebody.”Back in his high school days, George and his father would occasionally ask Hegre if the team was planning to practice over the weekend. Hegre knew that meant they were thinking about going fishing. They had their favorite spots: Hughes Lake, Lake Elsinore, Lopez Lake, Little Rock Reservoir.“I always thought that was pretty cool,” Hegre said.George has never played in a major market. Not in high school (Palmdale). Not in college (Fresno State). And not in the N.B.A., which may not be a coincidence. When he was with the Pacers, George lived in a suburban community with a large lake, where he kept a boat. He fished there, too.At the same time, his exit from Indiana affected him. It was the first time he felt disliked by the masses, and he was someone who had always tried hard to avoid disappointing or hurting people, said Steve Cleveland, his former coach at Fresno State.When George told Cleveland that he was entering the N.B.A. draft after two seasons at Fresno State, he was apologetic — and so were his parents, who kept apologizing even after George began to star for the Pacers.“I had to say, ‘Stop it,’” Cleveland said. “But that’s the type of people they are.”He added: “I’ve never really asked him this, but I’m sure leaving Indiana was a pretty sensitive deal for him. And I don’t think he wanted to go through all that stress again.”It is not hard to find big-time players who have come unglued at times because of their impending free agencies. Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors boycotted the news media for a couple of weeks. Kyrie Irving of the Boston Celtics has complained about the steep price of celebrity. For his part, George blamed “the press” for being a disruptive force in locker rooms.“Everything gets blown up,” he said. “Everything is a big deal.”It is no small feat, then, that George has found a home with the Thunder — and calm waters in Oklahoma City.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt Stevens and Kevin DraperThe Utah Jazz permanently banned a fan who they said aggressively taunted Russell Westbrook, one of the N.B.A.’s premier players, during a game Monday night in an incident that has prompted discussions about fan racism and player security.Westbrook, the star guard of the Oklahoma City Thunder, said the fan directed “disrespectful” and “racial” comments toward him. “A young man and his wife in the stands told me to get down on my knees ‘like you used to,’ ” Westbrook said.In a video posted on Twitter by a reporter for The Deseret News, Westbrook, who is black, can be seen using expletives to say that he will beat up the fan, who appears to be white, and extends the threat to include the man’s wife. The video is about 30 seconds long and does not show the full encounter or what prompted Westbrook, a guard for the visiting Oklahoma City Thunder, to react to the fan.After the game, Westbrook told reporters that the man had said “disrespectful things” about him and his family that he thought were “racial” and suggested that the video posted online lacked important context.He acknowledged that he had threatened to beat up the fan’s wife but said he had “never put his hand on a woman” and “never will.” He also stood by his actions, saying, “If I had to do it over again, I would say the same exact thing.”On Tuesday afternoon, the N.B.A. announced that it had fined Westbrook $25,000 “for directing profanity and threatening language to a fan.” The announcement came shortly after the Jazz, in a statement, said the fan would be permanently banned from all events at Vivint Smart Home Arena because of “excessive and derogatory verbal abuse directed at a player.” The team said it had conducted an investigation that included reviews of video and eyewitness accounts.The confrontation between Westbrook and the Jazz fan — who has presented a starkly different description of the episode — is the latest in a series of incidents that spotlight how fans treat athletes and the sometimes explosive consequences that can result, issues that both Westbrook and the N.B.A. have frequently been at the center of.“There’s no protection for the players,” Westbrook said in his postgame comments, which were transcribed by a reporter for The Salt Lake Tribune and later provided to The New York Times by the Thunder, who otherwise didn’t comment on the incident. “I think there are a lot of great fans who like to come to the game and enjoy the game. And then there are people that come to the game to say disrespectful things about me, my family.”Westbrook’s teammates backed his account of the interaction. Raymond Felton told reporters that he had overheard the comments made by the fan and said they were “totally disrespectful.” Patrick Patterson appeared to confirm Westbrook’s account of events on Twitter, and wrote that “fans are protected in every way possible but not us.”Multiple news outlets identified the Jazz fan as Shane Keisel. Keisel told ESPN that he did not swear at Westbrook or otherwise say anything inappropriate, and that he believed they were having fun. In an interview with local television station KSL, Keisel said Westbrook had been using profanity and “acting a fool,” which fans responded to by heckling him.Keisel said he saw Westbrook’s knees wrapped in towels, so he told him to “sit down and ice your knees, bro.” Westbrook responded that the wraps were for heat, Keisel said, adding that he then told Westbrook, “Well, you’re going to need it.” Keiser said the woman sitting next to him, who ESPN identified as his wife, Jennifer Huff, did not say anything to Westbrook and had her hands in her lap.Attempts to reach Keisel on Tuesday were unsuccessful.Keisel was sitting in the third row on the baseline, near the Thunder bench. Unlike in most other sports, in basketball fans can sit just a few feet away from players. This can lead to good-natured and spirited exchanges — like the back-and-forth heckling between Spike Lee and Reggie Miller in the 1990s — but also to large problems.Most infamous is what is known as The Malice at the Palace in 2004. After a brawl between the Indiana Pacers and Detroit Pistons at The Palace of Auburn Hills in Detroit, a fan threw a drink at Ron Artest, a Pacers forward at the time who has since changed his name to Metta World Peace. Artest charged into the stands, followed closely by teammate Stephen Jackson, and threw a punch at a fan. Artest was suspended for 86 games, and five players eventually pleaded no contest to misdemeanor assault charges.Since the incident, the N.B.A. has taken numerous steps to prevent violence, especially between players and fans. Players are now automatically suspended if they leave the bench during an on-court altercation, and fans whose unacceptable conduct is overheard by or reported to security are issued cards warning them that they can be ejected from the arena.In a statement after the game, the Jazz said arena security issued several warning cards to fans during the game.Westbrook has had a number of run-ins with fans in the past, including in Salt Lake City. During last year’s playoffs, Westbrook twice got into it with fans while leaving the court. The first time he stepped toward and yelled at a fan that was leaning over the railing talking to him; the second time Westbrook swiped at a phone that a fan had pushed toward his face.“Here in Utah, a lot of disrespectful, vulgar things are said to the players here with these fans,” Westbrook said after that game. Afterward, Jazz officials said that their arena security was adequate, and updated their in-arena video message about fan behavior.Last month in Denver, a child sitting in the front row gave Westbrook a small shove as he landed out of bounds. Westbrook bent over and calmly spoke to a man nearby and the child, patting him on the knee and shaking his hand before returning to the game. “I told his dad, ‘Be careful, man. You can’t have your son just hitting random people,’ ” Westbrook said after that game.Westbrook also pushed a fan who confronted him on the court after a game in Denver last year, and was fined $25,000 for shouting a vulgarity at a Dallas Mavericks fan in 2016.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alex WongNathaniel Butler has been an N.B.A. senior photographer since 1984. Those were the days of shooting on film and developing photos in hotel rooms after games. Today, players text Butler as they arrive at the arena so he can be in position to capture a perfect arena entrance shot for them to post on Instagram.The job isn’t what it used to be.When Andrew D. Bernstein became an official N.B.A. photographer in 1986, he was continually thwarted in his attempts to get his camera into in-game huddles to capture the interactions between players and coaches. Pat Riley, who was the coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, made sure to obscure all viewpoints.Halfway through the season, Riley asked Bernstein why he wanted to be in the huddle. People want to see what’s happening on the inside, Bernstein told Riley, who agreed to give Bernstein a chance. If you screw up, Riley said, you are never coming back.More than three decades later, Bernstein is still photographing N.B.A. players, huddles and pretty much whatever he pleases as the league’s longest tenured senior photographer.Photographers have long played a critical role in shaping narratives in a league defined by faces and moments. The most iconic posters are the finished works of the photographers who position themselves along the baseline each game, often contorting their bodies and forgetting about personal comfort to get closer and take countless snaps, in hopes of capturing a masterpiece.In today’s N.B.A., they allow players to use those photographs as building blocks for their social media profiles. They have adapted to an ever-changing digital world that has presented new opportunities and a whole new set of challenges.On game day, Butler uses a combination of tethered remotes and custom phone apps to operate any number of cameras in an arena.He sends photographs to a team of editors in Secaucus, N.J., with the press of a button. In seconds, they can be published on the league’s official social media feeds and reach millions of people around the world.Despite the technological advances, shooting an N.B.A. game can be more difficult than one would think. “A basketball game is a complex situation,” said Bruce Ely, the lead photographer of the Portland Trail Blazers. “There are a lot of moving parts.”Like a fan’s arms waving across the frame just as Damian Lillard makes a 3-pointer. Or the leg of another player sneaking into the edge of the image, ruining a portrait. Another time, it might be a referee walking into a perfect shot.Despite the challenges, some N.B.A. photographers do not consider it their most difficult assignment. Nelson Campana, who photographs the Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team, regularly shoots weddings as well. The pressure of game night is nothing compared with the responsibility of chronicling a couple’s special day.“You have one night to make it right,” Campana said. “There’s a list of things you need to get, and you don’t get another chance. At a basketball game, you’re just hoping things happen.”Some nights, there is too much happening at the same time. As the Oklahoma City Thunder eliminated the San Antonio Spurs in the 2016 playoffs, Butler had to make a split-second decision about what to photograph at the buzzer. He focused on Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook embracing, and then got a shot of Durant with Tim Duncan. He stayed with Durant afterward, but that meant missing a chance to capture Duncan walking off an N.B.A. court for the final time.“Ideally,” Butler said, “I would like to be in two places at one time.”While some players enjoy being on the other side of these photographers’ lenses, others say it is an adjustment. Aaron Gordon of the Orlando Magic first remembers being in front of a camera as a high schooler being interviewed after winning a basketball tournament.“You have to live in a way where you’re O.K. with being seen,” Gordon said. “You’re always being watched these days.”Because so many photos are being taken, players have to accept that they can control only so much of what is shared online.“You want to nitpick every single picture,” said John Collins, a second-year forward with the Atlanta Hawks. “But it just can’t work that way. You can’t read everything about yourself and see every photo of yourself.”To take more control over their visual narratives on social media, players are working with photographers to shoot them outside basketball arenas.Cassy Athena is a professional photographer who has earned the trust of players around the league. Last season, at All-Star Weekend in Los Angeles, Athena followed Stephen Curry and his wife, Ayesha, for the entire weekend. She was also invited by Indiana Pacers guard Victor Oladipo to shoot him at New York Fashion Week in 2018.Athena says it takes time to convince certain players of the value of her photographs.“It’s not so much they don’t understand the importance of the moment,” she said. “It’s convincing them why they should share it with the world. When it clicks, you get guys who might not be the best N.B.A. player, but they use this” — meaning Instagram and professional photos — “to build their own brand and further their careers.”Older, more established players worry less about their online persona but more about how the images carry a nostalgic value as their careers wind down.“What photographers do may seem minute,” said Vince Carter, 42, who just ended his 21st season in the league. “But I’ve seen so many shots of the best moments of my career, and in some ways, they’ve helped me remember those moments.”Many of these iconic images can now be seen on the Instagram pages of the photographers themselves. Bernstein said he was the last guy dragged kicking and screaming into the social media era. He now enjoys posting classic pictures for Throwback Thursday.Butler adds watermarks to the photographs he posts on his feed because other accounts and publications will often publish them without giving him credit. But he recognizes the value of being online. “It opens you up to a whole other audience,” Butler said.The rise of social media accounts means there are now more photographers at N.B.A. games. Butler prefers to use a camera lens that does not require him to be right in the face of players to capture them up close. In the modern era, he has noticed a lot of camera phones being shoved into players’ faces.“There’s an etiquette that doesn’t exist anymore,” Butler said. “Not just in sports, but in society.”Even though photographers want to capture every moment, some also realize that there are boundaries. A few months ago, Kyrie Irving and Durant had a private conversation at All-Star Weekend in Charlotte, N.C., which was captured on film. It was circulated online, and many believed the two were discussing their heavily rumored plans to join the Knicks together this summer.“If I was a player, that would bother me,” Butler said. “You don’t have to document every second of their existence.”Bernstein had a similar decision to make more than 30 years ago, during the 1988 N.B.A. finals, when he walked through the Lakers’ locker room after a loss and found Magic Johnson and Michael Cooper with their uniforms on, dejected as the showers were running around them.It was a one-of-a-kind moment, but Bernstein opted against taking the photograph.“That was their time,” Bernstein said. “That didn’t need to be documented. I have that picture in my mind, and that’s enough.”An earlier version of this article described Nelson Campana’s job incorrectly. He photographs the Toronto Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team; he is not the team photographer.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyBUIES CREEK, N.C. — With three seconds left in the first half last Wednesday night, Campbell point guard Chris Clemons was fouled on a layup. He banged the floor in frustration as the ball rimmed out, then rose and hit both free throws. Someone in the sparsely populated stands yelled, “Congratulations, Chris!” Given the size of the crowd, it’s almost certain Clemons heard him.The second free throw was Clemons’s 22nd point of the night, and the 2,952nd of his four-season career at Campbell, a private university about an hour’s drive south of Raleigh, N.C., his hometown. It also meant Clemons, a senior, had entered the top 10 of the men’s Division I college basketball career scoring list, passing the former Kansas star Danny Manning. By the end of the game, when Clemons had finished off a season-high 48-point effort, he had passed Oscar Robertson, too.“It’s kind of a gift and a curse that you’re not really able to enjoy the moment — or that I chose not to, rather,” Clemons said. “I do understand the significance of the events.”History is being made in college basketball this season, but not all of it is being made for teams that are likely bound for the Final Four or by players who are projected to be selected early in the next N.B.A. draft.With 3,006 career points at Campbell, Clemons is two behind Hersey Hawkins, the former Bradley player, for eighth all time, heading into Thursday’s game with High Point. At South Dakota State, another senior, Mike Daum, is poised to break into the top 10 by season’s end; with 2,943 points, he could pass Manning in the Jackrabbits’ game on Thursday against Fort Wayne.It is an unignorable fact that most of the players still ahead of Clemons and Daum on the career scoring list are not household names, either. After Hawkins, for instance, Clemons could pass Keydren Clark, who played for St. Peter’s, in Jersey City; Harry Kelly of Texas Southern, in Houston; and perhaps even Alphonso Ford of Mississippi Valley State, who holds fourth place with 3,165 points. (First place, by a country mile, with 3,667 points, is the Louisiana State legend Pete Maravich, even though he played only three seasons.)“I recognize that a lot of people on that list, who scored a lot of points in college, didn’t go on to have successful N.B.A. careers,” said Hawkins, who did have a successful N.B.A. career and now works for the Portland Trail Blazers.Freeman Williams — who is second, and the scorer of 3,249 points for Portland State — acknowledged that his college years had been his glory days. “I got most of my attention as a basketball player back then,” he said.Clemons and Daum fit in the same category. Daum is a two-time (and probable three-time) Summit League player of the year. Clemons is leading all Division I players in scoring this season, averaging nearly 30 points a game. Although both are likely to get opportunities to shine during the N.B.A.’s summer league or on its development league rosters, said Fran Fraschilla, the former coach and ESPN draft analyst, the 6-foot 9-inch Daum is at best a late-second-round draft pick. Clemons, who is listed at 5-9, is unlikely to be drafted at all.The relative anonymity of college basketball’s leading career scorers appears to be a feature, not a bug. If you are scoring so many points for so much time, you most likely are not doing so at college basketball’s heights.“If Mike Daum or Chris Clemons had gone to play in the Big Ten or the A.C.C.,” Fraschilla said last week, referring to the Atlantic Coast Conference, “they wouldn’t be on the verge of scoring 3,000 points.”He added, “As good players as they are, they would be on teams with other really talented players, as opposed to going to a school like S.D.S.U. or Campbell, where virtually from Day 1 their talent was such that they were the dominant player not only on their team but in their league.”And had they dominated as they have in a bigger league, they probably wouldn’t be seniors; the best college basketball players are around for only one or two seasons.“Let’s not kid ourselves,” said Lionel Simmons, who is third with 3,217 career points for La Salle. “Some of these players, if they didn’t come out early, they could have scored 3,000.”But even when top talents played for three or four college seasons, they did so for top teams whose other talented players lowered the individual demands on them. Superlative college players like U.C.L.A.’s Lew Alcindor (who later changed his name to Kareem Abdul-Jabbar) and Georgetown’s Patrick Ewing had the kinds of supporting casts that come with championship teams.The most prominent name in the top 20, after Robertson, is Larry Bird, who played most of his college career at Indiana State, a team that he led to the Final Four, but one that needed him to average 30 points a game. But a place on the list can still be a point of pride years later.Hawkins acknowledged that he kept tabs on developments in the career scoring top 10. In 2014, a Blazers scout was at the Creighton game in which Doug McDermott, now of the Indiana Pacers, passed Hawkins. “He was texting me, ‘Six points away,’ ‘Two points away,’” Hawkins said. “He thought it was funny. I was sitting at dinner getting texted every three minutes.”Last week, Clemons deflected postgame questions about passing Manning and Robertson, saying he was focused on this season, in which the Fighting Camels (15-11) are third in the Big South. Asked whether he had kept the game ball, he laughed; of course he had not.“After it’s all said and done, I’ll definitely go back and look, reminisce on the years I’ve had here, kind of be amazed at myself, know what I was able to accomplish,” Clemons said.Like Clemons, Daum emphasized in a telephone interview that he has been putting his team first. Still, he said, he could not help noticing recently when he passed Bird, as well as Duke’s J. J. Redick and North Carolina’s Tyler Hansbrough, two stars from the last decade whom Daum had grown up watching.“I feel like I’m going to look back on it” — his eventual scoring total — “maybe when I’m older, and be like, ‘See how cool it was to be in that position,’” Daum said.“For me personally,” he added, “it’s just getting ready for the next thing.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaATLANTA — Kyle Kuzma had his first interaction with LeBron James a little more than a year ago, when Kuzma was a first-year forward with the Los Angeles Lakers and James was a few months from dragging the Cleveland Cavaliers to another appearance in the N.B.A. finals. Kuzma had reached out by phone, hoping for some tips.“Just wanted to see how one of the greats takes care of his body and has so much longevity,” Kuzma recalled this week in an interview. “Everybody wants to play basketball for as long as possible.”So much has changed since that initial conversation. Kuzma and James are teammates now, and Kuzma is experiencing the unique challenges that come with playing alongside one of the game’s behemoths. At the same time, James’s body finally betrayed him this season, which has only heightened the sense of urgency within the organization: The Lakers, who have missed the playoffs for five years running, are not in position for a patient rebuild.James, at 34, may still be in his prime, but the stakes are already high for a franchise that desperately wants to maximize his time in Los Angeles. And while neither James nor Lakers management has shown much enthusiasm for coaxing along a young core — the Lakers tried to ship half the roster to New Orleans last week — they are stuck in this together. James was supposed to be the savior of a flagship franchise gone astray; salvaging the final months of this year would be a key indicator that he still wields that type of power.“We have to approach the rest of the season just like you would during the playoffs,” Kuzma said.As Kuzma recalled his talk with James, he had no way of knowing that the Lakers were mere hours from suffering one final implosion before the N.B.A. All-Star break — a 117-113 loss to the Atlanta Hawks that left the team with a losing record and ample opportunity for soul searching.“It’s time for us to get away and reflect a little bit about where we are as a group,” Coach Luke Walton said. “I think this first part of the season, we’ve gone through a lot of adversity. And we’re probably not where we want to be, but we’re still close enough.”Close enough, that is, for vying for a spot in the playoffs, which was both an indication of the team’s modest goals and its sad reality. At 28-29, the Lakers are in 10th place in the Western Conference standings. It is unfamiliar territory for James, who has not been on a losing team this late in a season since he was a first-year forward with the Cavaliers.“But with LeBron on your team, anything is possible,” said Mychal Thompson, a power forward for the Showtime-era Lakers and an analyst for the team’s radio broadcasts. “I mean, look at some of the teams he’s taken to the finals — including last season. He’s capable of doing great things if you just get on board and run with him.”The Lakers, though, seem fragile after nearly five months of drama — all of it stemming directly or indirectly from the $154 million deal that James signed to join the team last summer. The pressure was on from the start, and little has gone according to plan.“There’s been more noise this year,” Walton said, “but that was to be expected with the moves in the off-season. That was something to be anticipated.”Where to begin? Brandon Ingram and Rajon Rondo were suspended for trying to brawl with the Houston Rockets two games into the season. Magic Johnson, the team’s outspoken president of basketball operations, chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting for the team’s slow start, igniting lasting questions about Walton’s job security. Nearly every player on the roster has been injured, and that includes James, who missed 17 games with a strained groin.And lest we forget: Last week, Johnson and General Manager Rob Pelinka tried to trade away nearly half the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans for Anthony Davis, who, before the start of the season, hired the same agent who represents James. It was the clearest sign yet that Johnson is willing to attempt the very boldest moves — no matter the residual damage.Consider that the Lakers, amid their ultimately fruitless effort to pry Davis away from the Pelicans, lost by 42 points to the Indiana Pacers. And with rumors of which Lakers would be traded swirling through social media, it was difficult to find arguments in their defense — even from James himself.Kuzma, who was offered up as one of the pieces in a potential deal, said it had been difficult to drown out the noise.“It’s definitely tough,” he said, “because this generation, you’re always on your phone, always on social media, always seeing it somewhere on TV.”But the trade deadline passed, and the roster more or less remained intact. There had been a sense that a surprising win against the Boston Celtics on Feb. 7 would galvanize the team in the wake of so much uncertainty. And even after losing to the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, the Lakers still had a chance to build some momentum against the Hawks on Tuesday.Before the game, James appeared to be in an upbeat mood. In the locker room, he knelt on a giant inflatable ball as he worked on some core-strengthening exercises. He crooned the lyrics to “Plug Walk” by the hip-hop artist Rich the Kid. He made small talk with Ingram. It was all vintage James.About three hours later, once the Lakers had punctuated their loss with a turnover, James made a beeline off the court and into the tunnel. He was practically steaming. He had finished with his fifth triple-double of the season — 28 points, 16 assists, 11 rebounds — but the Lakers’ defense was as porous as a coffee filter, and the result was just as messy.“I can throw that game in the trash,” James said.In a three-minute postgame session with reporters, Kuzma mentioned the concept of “fun” five times — specifically, the notion that the Lakers were not having much of it.“A lot of times we’re out there with sad faces, very focused faces,” Kuzma said. “But I think we’re at our best when we’re having fun.”Fun may not be the primary objective for James, and the psychic effects of the loss are sure to linger until at least Feb. 21, when their season will resume after the All-Star break with a home game against the Houston Rockets. For now, though, the best thing for these players may be to be away from each other for a while, which was one of Walton’s suggestions before they parted for the break.“Spend some time by yourself,” he said, and added: “I think we’ve got a group that will be ready by the time we get back.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressThe Nets were all business on Sunday. They started fast. They closed hard. And they refused to let anything, even a frequent nemesis, block their playoff path.Instead, the Nets beat Indiana at its own physical game and earned their first playoff berth in four years with a 108-96 victory on the road — though the muted locker room celebration made it hard to tell if players were more relieved or excited that the drought was over.“It means a lot, obviously to exceed expectations for a lot of us in here, to see how far we’ve come,” Joe Harris said after scoring 18 of his 19 points in the decisive first half. “It means a ton. Hopefully, it’s a sign of things to come for this organization.”After starting the season 8-18, the Nets (41-40) fought back to clinch their first nonlosing record in four years and can make it a winning season by beating Miami in Wednesday’s regular-season finale. They have the same record as Orlando; the Nets will finish sixth and the Magic seventh with a win or an Orlando loss. The Nets will be no worse than seventh.“There was another level of focus, another level of being locked in,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “They wanted it so bad, there was an extra energy there in these past few games.”The Nets, who got 20 points from D’Angelo Russell and 18 from Caris LeVert, ended a nine-game losing streak against the Pacers and a seven-game losing streak in Indianapolis that dated to March 2015.Domantas Sabonis had 17 points and 12 rebounds for Indiana, which has lost two straight at home and five of seven over all, locking the Pacers into the No. 5 seed in the East.“They were playing for something and they went out and showed it,” the Pacers’ Myles Turner said of the Nets.KNICKS 113, WIZARDS 110 Mario Hezonja scored a career-high 30 points and made the go-ahead 3-pointer with 44 seconds left, and the Knicks beat Washington at Madison Square Garden for the first time in nine games over six years.Luke Kornet added 17 points and Kevin Knox had 16 for the Knicks (16-64), who would have tied the franchise record for losses had they not rallied from a 10-point deficit after three quarters.“There’s no quitters in this locker room, in this organization, and we’re just showing we have a great chemistry going around and it resulted in a win,” Hezonja said. “So we’re not paying attention to standings or whatever it is. We just treat it as a development year and hopefully it results in something big next year.”The Knicks have to win their last two games to avoid at least matching their 17-65 record under Derek Fisher in 2014-15.HORNETS 104, PISTONS 91 Kemba Walker scored 20 of his 31 points in the first half to help Charlotte win at Detroit.The Hornets won their third in a row to keep their East playoff hopes alive. Charlotte and Miami are tied for ninth, a game behind Detroit. All three teams have two games left.RAPTORS 117, HEAT 109 Pascal Siakam had 23 points and 10 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard scored 22 points, and host Toronto won in overtime, further denting Miami’s fading playoff hopes.MAGIC 116, CELTICS 108 Terrence Ross had 26 points, Nikola Vucevic added 25 points and 12 rebounds, and Orlando rallied at Boston to clinch its first playoff berth in seven years.WARRIORS 131, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 27 points as Golden State clinched the Western Conference’s top seed, beating Los Angeles in the Warriors’ final regular-season game at Oracle Arena.3-POINTER RECORD James Harden scored 30 points in just three quarters as the Houston Rockets broke their N.B.A. record by making 27 3-pointers in a 149-113 home win against Phoenix. Eric Gordon led the way with eight 3-pointers, and Harden had five.Advertisement
Giannis or Harden for M.V.P.? Who makes the Warriors better: Steph or K.D.? Marc Stein considers these questions and more in the latest edition of his newsletter.Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate for this season’s Most Valuable Player Award.CreditCreditMorry Gash/Associated PressSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to get this newsletter from Marc Stein each week — for free? Sign up here.]As the 2018-19 regular season dribbles to a close, with just two nights and 22 of 1,230 games to go, voters leaguewide are finalizing their year-end award ballots in six major categories. I am no longer one of them, because The New York Times does not permit its reporters to vote for such awards, but it’s still a useful exercise as we take stock of the season to break down each race and who I would have picked.Official selections are due Friday night and there is simply no wrong answer when choosing between Antetokounmpo and Houston’s James Harden for the top spot on the five-man M.V.P. ballot.I have always approached this category by trying to identify who had the best overall season — based on a subjective and imprecise mixture of individual and team success — rather than paying attention to the noise about which player is most widely regarded as the game’s best … or the best two-way player … or any other such designation.So who had the better 2018-19 season? I would go (ever so narrowly) with Giannis. On top of all his individual superlatives, Antetokounmpo has been the face and chief culture-setter in the Bucks’ transformation from 44-win underachiever to the best team in the league (regular-season edition). And his candidacy gets bonus points on our scorecard because Milwaukee, for Eastern Conference supremacy, had to beat out a trio of worthy challengers who were all projected as superior before the season.Harden would be tremendously unlucky to finish second in M.V.P. balloting for the third time in five seasons, but I think that’s where this is headed. He is going to be the first scoring champion (36.1 points per game) to win the scoring title by more than eight points per game since Michael Jordan did over Dominique Wilkins in 1986-87. And I tend to agree with Houston Coach Mike D’Antoni’s contention that Harden is the only player capable of hauling the injury-riddled Rockets to 53 victories out of the 11-14 hole they were in. Harden simply has the misfortune of doing all that damage in a season that belonged to Antetokounmpo and the Bucks.It feels as though I have been writing and tweeting about Doncic and his Atlanta Hawks counterpart Trae Young all season. I suspect I will be writing about the two of them for the next decade-plus. And I’m fine with that.Doncic has had the start-to-finish stronger campaign and continued to look like a franchise player even though the Mavericks steadily increased his Year 1 workload after trading away four-fifths of their starting lineup in February. The trade brought in Kristaps Porzingis and better positions Dallas to build out a supporting cast tailored to their electric European import.Young has delivered even more impressive post-All-Star break production (24.9 points per game and 9.1 assists per game) for a scrappy Hawks team with a passable record of 23-29 since its dismal 6-23 start — and an increasingly bright future.Doncic is going to win the race, but Young overcame his own worrisome launch to make it a competition — and a rivalry that should have staying power — with his second-half surge.Doncic will be remembered as the only rookie in N.B.A. history not named Oscar Robertson to average at least 20 points, 7 rebounds and 5 assists. And Young can take solace in being almost as unfortunate as Harden if he doesn’t win the hardware. It’s quite a compliment when you think about it.Had the Indiana Pacers won 50 games in a season in which Victor Oladipo was healthy enough to play only 36, Nate McMillan would have the résumé to deny the Bucks’ Budenholzer. I’m not sure McMillan is miles off with 47 wins.Doc Rivers of the Los Angeles Clippers, like McMillan, is another victim of bad timing. Rivers hasn’t had a team overachieve like these starless Clippers since his rookie season on the bench with Orlando in 1999-2000 when the Magic won a wholly unexpected 41 games in a season billed as a placeholder before a splashy free-agent summer that ultimately landed Grant Hill and Tracy McGrady in the Magic Kingdom.But Milwaukee’s improvement in Budenholzer’s first season has been so dramatic that I can’t see how he doesn’t win his second Coach of the Year trophy. Perhaps some voters will try to convince themselves that the Bucks would be getting too much love if they vote for both Giannis for M.V.P. and Bud for this honor. But we’re talking about the league’s only 60-win team … and the runaway champions in average point differential for the season (+9.1) … and the only team in the league to rank in the top five in both offensive and defensive efficiency.Antetokounmpo is the biggest reason all that is possible. General Manager Jon Horst is likewise on an impressive run of roster moves. But Budenholzer’s impact has been undeniable.Honorable mentions, along with McMillan and Rivers: Denver’s Mike Malone, Brooklyn’s Kenny Atkinson, Portland’s Terry Stotts, Orlando’s Steve Clifford, Detroit’s Dwane Casey, Golden State’s Steve Kerr and, of course, San Antonio’s Gregg Popovich.Manu Ginobili, who just had his familiar No. 20 retired by the San Antonio Spurs, used to be synonymous with sixth man excellence to me. Ditto for Jamal Crawford.Yet I’d say Williams wears that crown now.The Clippers’ designated scorer won this award last season and stands as a huge favorite to join Crawford as the league’s only three-time winner — despite the challenge he’s getting from teammate Montrezl Harrell.Someone from the Clippers has to win some year-end recognition in light of the Cinderella season they’ve assembled. Williams makes the most sense over a quality field that also features Harrell, Indiana’s Domantas Sabonis, Brooklyn’s Spencer Dinwiddie, New Orleans’ Julius Randle and San Antonio’s Davis Bertans.As the self-proclaimed overseer of the All-Lefty Team, it pains me to snub both D’Angelo Russell of the Nets and Sacramento’s De’Aaron Fox in this category.But I’ve been saying for years that ultra-high former draft picks like Russell and second-year players like Fox are not going to be Most Improved candidates for me. Russell made a tremendous, inspiring leap to All-Star status in Brooklyn this season, but the wow factor partly stems from the fact that he fell so far short of expectations in his first three seasons. Fox, meanwhile, made the sort of Year 1-to-Year 2 leap Sacramento was counting on from someone it billed as a franchise cornerstone.No one expected Siakam to become an impact player at both ends and a borderline All-Star who helped the Raptors to post 57 wins amid the 22 games Kawhi Leonard missed for various reasons of injury and precaution.The nostalgic sap in me, truth be told, wanted to go with Minnesota’s resurgent Derrick Rose. But D-Rose only wound up being healthy enough to appear in 51 games — and as a former M.V.P. he’s more of a Comeback Player of the Year than a Most Improved candidate. The N.B.A.’s specific instructions in this category read as follows: “This award is designed to honor an up-and-coming player who has made a dramatic improvement from the previous season or seasons. It is not intended to be given to a player who has made a ‘comeback.’ ”Siakam, in other words, is perfect. He’s a former No. 27 overall pick who zoomed from role player to foundational player — either beside Leonard or in a post-Kawhi world should Leonard flee Canada in free agency this summer.Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate here, too, as is Oklahoma City’s Paul George and Indiana’s Myles Turner. But the Bucks, at least on this mythical ballot, will have to settle for two of the six top prizes.Three would have been too many. Especially since Utah’s Gobert remains such a dominant deterrent at the rim in his role as the anchor for a defense that officially ranks No. 2 but is essentially on par with Milwaukee’s.[Marc Stein’s newsletter will have the latest on the N.B.A. playoffs, which start Saturday. Sign up here.]You ask; I answer. Every week in this space, I’ll field three questions posed via email at marcstein-newsletter@nytimes.com. (Please include your first and last name, as well as the city you’re writing in from, and make sure the subject line reads “Corner Three.”)Q: Deandre Ayton hasn’t had a terrible rookie year, but it has paled in comparison to what we’ve seen from Luka Doncic and Trae Young. What do you think Ayton needs to improve on — and will he ever match Luka or Trae’s potential? — Henry Roth (Scottsdale, Ariz.)STEIN: It speaks to how far the Suns have faded from prominence that Ayton, as the No. 1 overall pick last June, got so little attention given the numbers he posted (16.3 points and 10.3 rebounds per game).The leaguewide fascination with Doncic and Young is also a factor, as you mentioned, but Ayton was overlooked in the extreme this season. Suns fans should be hoping that the snub helps motivate Ayton in Year 2, because consistency and sustained energy have been issues for him so far.From a technical standpoint, Ayton has to develop into more of a rim protector. With his mobility and athleticism, Phoenix should be able to build a defense around him. He’s not close to elite yet at that end.But it would also be unfair to ignore that Ayton was frequently forced to start alongside two other rookies on a squad that still doesn’t have a starter-level N.B.A. point guard.Q: Dirk Nowitzki hasn’t come out and said he is retiring, but everyone else seems to be saying it. At first I didn’t believe Adam Silver would have put Dirk in the All-Star Game if he didn’t have it on good authority that Dirk would soon retire, but could this actually not be his final year? It looks like Dirk’s ankle has finally recovered from surgery and he’s moving a lot better. Why not play one more season with Luka Doncic and Kristaps Porzingis and try to go out with a playoff berth? — Sharad AcharyaSTEIN: This much I can tell you: Dirk joining Dwyane Wade in the All-Star Game as a so-called “commissioner’s pick” has nothing to do with Nowitzki’s retirement plans. As Dirk stated before, during and after his trip to Charlotte, this was his All-Star swan song no matter what, even if he decided to play next season.I think there have been times since the All-Star break when an encouraged Nowitzki has imagined himself carrying on. He’s been a huge Porzingis fan for years and would naturally love to experience the Doncic/Porzingis tandem. But the reality is that season No. 21 has been a bigger challenge physically than he ever imagined.Is it really worth putting his body through the rigors of yet another nine-month ride? The case against coming back is much stronger than the case for it, which is why you’ve heard the likes of Mark Cuban and Steve Nash give interviews in recent days that make it sound as though the end is near.Q: I’d like to hear your thoughts on how Stephen Curry makes everyone else on the floor better and how that may not necessarily be the case with Kevin Durant? — Michael DortheimerSTEIN: Anyone who believes this must not have watched the last two N.B.A. finals.Steph is Golden State’s No. 1 playmaker and a true revolutionary when it comes to the way his seemingly limitless shooting range bends defenses.But there’s a reason Durant has won back-to-back M.V.P. trophies in the finals. He’s the best finisher in the game and was the best player on the floor on the game’s grandest stage two years in a row.The Warriors are 32-6 in the playoffs since Durant arrived. Who would dare say he doesn’t make all of the other Warriors better just by being out there?Curry has the ball in his hands more, which surely fuels the perception you describe, but Durant commands more double teams than any other Warrior and is a great passer both out of the post and in pick-and-roll situations. There is no shortage of coaches and scouts around the league who regard him as an elite playmaker.This is the fifth time in the Knicks’ 73-season history that they’ve had the league’s worst record. The first three times, there were fewer than 10 teams in the league: 1960-61 (21-58 in an eight-team league), 1962-63 (21-59 in a nine-team league) and 1964-65 (22-58 in a nine-team league). The Knicks were also at the bottom of a 23-team league in 1985-86 at 23-59. At 16-64 so far this season, the Knicks will post the lowest win total in franchise history unless they win at least one of their final two games. Utah’s Rudy Gobert is poised to finish this season with more dunks than anyone else, with 301 dunks to Antetokounmpo’s 279 for Milwaukee. Gobert, though, has played in all 80 of Utah’s games this season. Antetokounmpo has missed 12 of the Bucks’ 81 games to date. Antetokounmpo’s Bucks finished 18th in defensive rating last season. They’ve climbed 17 spots this season to rank No. 1 overall entering Tuesday’s play, allowing 104.8 points per 100 possessions. Jason Terry’s 590 regular-season games alongside Dirk are the most of any teammate in Nowitzki’s 21 seasons in Dallas. J.J. Barea ranks second (and No. 1 among active Mavericks) with 543 regular-season games. The Mavericks say Nowitzki has had 197 teammates.This is the 39th consecutive season, according to the peerless data maintained by Basketball-Reference.com, during which the average height of N.B.A. players is 6-foot-7. The last season that featured a different figure was 1979-80, when the average height of N.B.A. players was 6-foot-6.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinCarmelo Anthony will finally secure his escape from the Houston Rockets on Tuesday when the Rockets complete a trade that sends the former All-Star to the Chicago Bulls, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.The Bulls have no intention of playing Anthony but could elect to keep him until the Feb. 7 trade deadline and use him in another potential deal, according to the person, who was not authorized to discuss the trade publicly.The trade with Chicago, which is also expected to include some minor draft compensation, could not be executed Monday because the league office was closed in observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day. But the Rockets, as first reported by ESPN, offered an undisclosed amount of cash to convince the Bulls to take on the remainder of Anthony’s $2.4 million salary for this season, which will result in a luxury-tax savings of $2.6 million for Houston.Anthony, 34, has been in search of a new team since Nov. 11, when The New York Times first reported that the former Knick’s time with the Rockets was coming to an end after just 10 games together.Houston formally announced on Nov. 15 that the sides were “parting ways” but has kept Anthony on the roster for the past two months in hopes of trading him rather than outright releasing him, thus avoiding the luxury-tax hit.Whether Anthony stays on Chicago’s roster until Feb. 7 or becomes a free agent sooner than that, his challenge remains finding a team willing to give him another shot after failed stints with Houston and the Oklahoma City Thunder. Concerns about Anthony’s defense and his ability to shed his ball-dominant ways of the past and adapt to a catch-and-shoot role have resulted in scant interest in him despite his accomplished résumé.The Times reported last month that the Los Angeles Lakers, the Philadelphia 76ers and the Charlotte Hornets are among the teams that have weighed but ultimately resisted pursuing Anthony since the Rockets sent him away from the team.The Rockets spent the weekend trying to find a new home for Anthony via trade to create a roster spot for the veteran big man Kenneth Faried, who signed with Houston on Monday after securing a contract buyout from the Nets on Friday.Trades can happen on weekends and holidays but only if the league office is given notice that a deal is in the works by 6 p.m. on the most recent business day. As a result, Houston was forced to release the swingman James Nunnally to create the roster room to add Faried.The Rockets are hoping Faried can help fill the void created by a thumb injury to starting center Clint Capela, who is expected to be sidelined for at least a month after undergoing surgery last week.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byStars being added to Eastern Conference powerhouses drew most of the headlines, but there were other moves that could prove significant.By Benjamin HoffmanN.B.A. fans can be forgiven for being distracted by shiny objects. And there are few objects shinier than a star who is being added to a playoff contender.But even though the powerhouses of the Eastern Conference went to war over which team could add the biggest piece, it is worth taking a look at some under-the-radar moves that could prove significant this season or in the near future. Amid the flurry of moves this week, these three deals stood out as opportunities for players to thrive in situations far more advantageous to their careers than where they had been, which could end up paying significant dividends to the teams that acquired them.The Magic are trading Jonathon Simmons, a first-round pick and a second-round pick to the Philadelphia 76ers for Fultz, according to The Athletic.Why it matters: The very public breakdown of Fultz’s career has made any move involving him relevant. A consensus No. 1 pick in the 2017 draft after a terrific freshman season at Washington, Fultz was viewed by Philadelphia as the endgame of the team’s long-running Process. The Sixers traded the No. 3 pick in that draft (which ended up being Jayson Tatum) and a future first-round pick (likely to be Sacramento’s pick in this year’s draft) to Boston so they could move up two spots to get him.Things fell apart almost immediately. Fultz’s shooting form went from quirky to horrendous, debates emerged as to whether he had been injured or had simply lost his confidence, and he played just 14 games last season and 19 this season before shutting down with a diagnosis of thoracic outlet syndrome.No one knows what Fultz is capable of, but it had become painfully obvious that he was not going to have the opportunity to play his way through his problems with the Sixers, a team that believes it has a legitimate chance of winning the East this year.In Orlando, the pressure should be turned down considerably. The team values length, and while Fultz is a modest 6-foot-4, he has a seven-foot wingspan and has at times shown flashes of brilliance, including during a game last April in which he became the first teenager to officially record a triple-double in the N.B.A.In this week’s trade, Philadelphia managed to land a few picks to replace what it gave up to be able to draft Fultz. But Simmons is primarily filler to make the trade work, and the move is mostly about clearing an unproductive player off the Sixers’ roster and letting him try to find a better situation elsewhere. As Fultz looks to avoid joining Anthony Bennett and LaRue Martin as the biggest busts to be taken with the No. 1 overall pick, Orlando seems as good of a place as any to get started.The Kings traded Justin Jackson and Zach Randolph to the Dallas Mavericks for Barnes.Why it matters: The Kings entered Thursday night’s games as the No. 9 seed in the West, one and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers and one game ahead of the Los Angeles Lakers. With the Clippers having just traded Tobias Harris, the door is open for Sacramento to secure its first playoff spot since 2006.Sacramento plays extraordinarily fast, partly as a result of repeatedly using lineups with three guards, but they play at a significant size disadvantage.Enter Barnes, a 6-8 small forward who gives the team a bigger body without requiring the offense to slow down all that much.It’s hard to remember after three productive-if-uninspiring seasons in Dallas, but Barnes was once a member of Golden State’s ultrafluid Death Lineup, and if he can get back to a 3-and-D style of play, he could be a perfect addition to the Kings’ starting five, though that does not mean the deal is without drawbacks.First and foremost, Barnes has been used to a high-usage role in Dallas, and that will not be available to him in Sacramento, a team with an offensive pecking order that will make him a third option at best. He also has let his defense slide to the point where he was a net negative on the court for Dallas. The Kings will probably be on the hook for his $25.1 million player option next year, and if he isn’t on board to shift his style of play, he could make the team worse.All of that said, Barnes is still just 26, and after winning a championship in his third season, and 73 regular-season games in his fourth year, he has not sniffed the playoffs since. A return to a relevant team could unlock the complementary player who helped Golden State soar, and for a franchise that has often been accused of sabotaging itself, this is a real attempt to make the team better.The Bulls traded Jabari Parker and Bobby Portis to the Washington Wizards for Porter. Why it matters: Neither team is going anywhere this season, but Chicago is trying to set up the team’s future by acquiring Porter, a player with loads of potential — and an enormous contract — who has sometimes failed to click in Washington.Porter, a 25-year-old forward who has plenty of size at 6-8, has seen his statistics decline this season, at least in part because of the overall decline of the Wizards. But at his best, he is capable of shooting better than 40 percent from 3-point range while also contributing rebounding and passing. For an example of why Chicago would take a flier on a frustrating player owed a great deal of money, look no further than one of the players he was traded for: Parker. Last off-season, the Bulls had money to spend and wanted to make a free-agent splash. Parker, a player known as much for being injury prone as for being defense-averse, was the best they could do. In Porter they pick up a young player with plenty of potential who is owed a little more than $27 million next season and has a player option of a bit less than $28.5 million in 2020-21. That is probably better than what Chicago could get on the open market, which makes it worth saying goodbye to Portis, a decent rotation player who was mostly wasted on a team that is several big pieces away from contention.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFor Dwyane Wade's final NBA game, where else would his so-called Banana Boat Crew members be but on hand to see it?Wade ended his 16-year career with a bang Wednesday night, producing his fifth career triple-double as he amassed 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in the Miami Heat's 113-94 loss to the Brooklyn Nets.Sitting courtside to watch Wade in his final NBA game were his longtime friends and fellow NBA stars LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony.Of course they would be there, James said during the game. James was shut down for several of the Lakers' final games and Paul's Houston Rockets played their final regular-season game Tuesday night. Anthony did not sign with another NBA team after his release from the Chicago Bulls this season after he was traded by the Rockets."Listen, we all started this journey together," James told Fox Sports Southeast. "Obviously CP came into the league a couple years after us, but we have a brotherhood that is just so much more than basketball. CP played last night, we had our last regular-season game last night, and Melo is right here in New York, so we kind of made the plan and made the decision to come up here."The friends often travel together during the summer and picked up the Banana Boat Crew moniker after photos of them riding in one circulated on social media in 2016.James, who won two NBA titles with Wade in Miami, two of the three Wade won altogether, was asked about favorite memories of his friendship with Wade. James said a good answer to that would take a while."I mean, we'd be here all night talking. We'd be here all night talking about the best memories, or the most fond memories I have of D-Wade."The plane rides, the bus rides, the hotels when we get to the city we'd go to the hotel room and just chop it up, the dinners we had on the road, everything we did was always genuine. (There was) always love, and we always wanted the best for one another, no matter the good or the bad."I will say the most founding part was when we lost (to Dallas in 2011). Because, without '11, there's no (2013), no (2012 championship) banners hanging up in (AmericanAirlines Arena). That's what made us. That's what made our team."It's been an unbelievable journey for my guy, and I'm happy to be here for the last little part of the road before the train comes to a stop."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCHICAGO — Joel Embiid had 20 points and 10 rebounds, JJ Redick scored 23 and the Philadelphia 76ers beat the Chicago Bulls 116-96 on Saturday night.Embiid dominated inside, Redick supplied the outside touch and the 76ers got back to winning after dropping three in a row, even though guard Jimmy Butler missed his second consecutive game because of back tightness. They also bumped their lead over idle Boston for the No. 3 seed in the Eastern Conference to two games.Embiid had five assists and blocked three shots in his second straight start after missing three in a row. The All-Star center has been dealing with a sore left knee, and the Sixers are managing his workload with the playoffs approaching.Redick nailed four 3-pointers. Tobias Harris added 16 points. Ben Simmons scored 14, and the 76ers pulled away in the third quarter after grabbing an eight-point halftime lead.JaKarr Sampson led Chicago with a career-high 29 points. But the Bulls lost for the sixth time in seven games.Outdueled by fellow MVP candidate Giannis Antetokounmpo in a loss to Milwaukee on Thursday, Embiid scored 14 as the 76ers grabbed a 57-49 halftime lead.He cut for a thunderous one-handed alley-oop dunk off a feed from Simmons with just over a minute left in the half. A four-point play by Redick got the lead up to 57-47 before Chicago's Walt Lemon Jr. drove for a layup in the closing seconds.The Sixers put the Bulls away in the third, outscoring them 29-19.TIP-INS76ers: Butler, who spent his first six seasons in Chicago, has missed three of the past four games. He was hurt in the Sixers' win at Minnesota on March 30 when he missed an alley-oop lob from Simmons.Bulls: G Zach LaVine (right knee tendinitis, bruised right thigh) indicated he will not play again this season, though the Bulls have not officially shut him down. "You have to evaluate the situation you're in right now," he said. "I think the risk versus reward of me playing right now is — you don't want to hurt yourself further with two games left in the season." LaVine missed his eighth game in a row Saturday. The Bulls host New York on Tuesday and wrap up the season at Philadelphia the following night. Coach Jim Boylen said Chicago has not made "a final decision that I can talk about" on LaVine, G Kris Dunn (strained back) or F Otto Porter Jr. (strained right rotator cuff). ... Boylen said F Lauri Markkanen continues to wear a heart monitor and tests have been "unremarkable." The 7-footer from Finland has started running, shooting and participating in non-contact parts of practice. The Bulls shut down Markkanen for the remainder of the season last week because of a rapid heart rate and fatigue.UP NEXT76ers: Visit Miami on Tuesday.Bulls: Host New York on Tuesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.He secured his season high in points with a straightaway 3-pointer, his fifth of the game, early in the third quarter for 22 points. That was followed by a rare slam dunk that elicited howls from the crowd and a big smile across Nowitzki's face.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history then drained another jumper for 26 points and an 80-49 Dallas lead. He re-entered the game with three minutes left and hit two more buckets to go 11 of 31 from the floor. He finished with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 32 minutes.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points -- one off his career best -- with 26 coming in the fourth quarter, to get the Suns as close as 105-100 with 4:20 to play.Crawford, 39, became the oldest player ever to score 50-plus points in an NBA game. The old mark was held by Michael Jordan, who was 38 when he scored 51 for the Washington Wizards on Dec. 29, 2001, against the Charlotte Hornets.According to ESPN, Crawford also became the first player to score 50 points for four different franchises (Chicago Bulls, New York Knicks, Golden State Warriors and now Phoenix).The Suns closed out a miserable season, finishing 19-63.A longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery kept Nowitzki out until mid-December. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career, and averaged 6.6 points in less than 15 minutes a game before Tuesday.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted "M-V-P! M-V-P!" Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2006-07 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.The future of the Mavs (33-48), rookie Luka Doncic, also didn't disappoint, notching his eighth triple-double with 21 points, 11 assists and 16 rebounds. He moved into sole possession of third place for most triple-doubles by a rookie.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaKenny Anderson, a celebrated point guard from Queens who had a 14-year N.B.A. career, was hospitalized over the weekend after suffering a stroke.Lina Catalfamo Plath, a family spokeswoman, said via email that Anderson was recovering. Plath also released a statement from Anderson’s wife, Natasha.“We would like to thank everyone for reaching out on behalf of Kenny,” Natasha Anderson said in the statement. “Our family is extremely grateful for all the prayers and love that we have received over the last few days. We appreciate you continuing to respect our privacy as Kenny heals.”Anderson, 48, recently concluded his first season as the men’s basketball coach at Fisk University, a historically black school in Nashville that plays at the N.A.I.A. level.As a high school player at Archbishop Molloy, a powerhouse program in Queens, Anderson was one of the most prolific and high-profile players in the city’s rich basketball history. A McDonald’s All-American, Anderson set what was then a state scoring record with 2,621 points before enrolling at Georgia Tech, where he helped the team reach the Final Four in 1990.After Anderson spent two seasons at Georgia Tech, the New Jersey Nets made him the second overall pick in the 1991 N.B.A. draft — Larry Johnson went first to the Charlotte Hornets — and Anderson enjoyed a productive career that never quite lived up to the hype that had followed him since he was a teenager. He averaged 12.6 points and 6.1 assists a game while playing for nine teams, including the Boston Celtics and the Portland Trail Blazers, and was an All-Star selection for the Nets in 1994.A 2017 documentary on Anderson called “Mr. Chibbs” detailed many of his personal struggles, including bankruptcy and depression. In 2014, he traveled to North Korea as a member of the team that Dennis Rodman, the former Chicago Bulls forward, cobbled together at the invitation of Kim Jong-un, the country’s leader.“My mistakes weren’t really mistakes,” Anderson said in an interview with The New York Times in 2011. “It was being young and living and learning. Yes, I spent a lot of money; I went through a lot of money. I had some failed marriages — if you want to criticize me for that. You can’t cry about your mishaps. I count my blessings, I don’t count my mishaps.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSpeaking to local media around midday Thursday, Memphis Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said he hadn't talked with team owner Robert Pera yet, but he could make one declaration: Head coach J.B. Bickerstaff would return for a second season. Two hours later, that decision had changed, and several other moves were made.The Grizzlies fired Bickerstaff and demoted Wallace to a scouting role.Memphis also named Jason Wexler as team president with "oversight of both business and basketball operations," the team said in a statement. The Grizzlies promoted Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations, with former VP John Hollinger reassigned to a senior advisory position."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a reenergized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."--Sacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said.Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs. The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final postseason spot in the West.--Larry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed to part ways."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.--Cardiologists have cleared Chicago Bulls forward Lauri Markkanen to resume full basketball activities, the team announced.Markkanen, 21, experienced extreme fatigue and an accelerated heart rate during a game in Toronto on March 26. A battery of tests conducted at Chicago's Rush University Medical Center and Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore determined that dehydration and nutrient deficiency caused his symptoms.The 7-footer missed the rest of the regular season, finishing his second campaign with averages of 18.7 points and 9.0 rebounds in 52 games.--The Phoenix Suns officially named James Jones as general manager, giving him control over all basketball operations for the team.The Suns also added Jeff Bower as senior vice president of basketball operations and retained Trevor Bukstein as assistant general manager. Both will report to Jones, the team announced in a statement.Jones, 38, who played 14 seasons in the league and won three NBA championships, had served as Phoenix's VP of basketball operations the past two seasons. He shared GM duties this past season with Bukstein.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanEnes Kanter has found a new home with the Portland Trail Blazers.The 26-year-old center, who has averaged 14 points and 10.5 rebounds game this season, fell out of the Knicks’ rotation last month and was released last week after the N.B.A. trade deadline. Kanter announced his move Wednesday on Twitter.#RipCity⁠ ⁠ pic.twitter.com/4dTLXyZedgKanter continued to put up big numbers for the Knicks even after he was relegated to a bench role. Though limited defensively, he has a knack for low-post scoring and rebounding that led to 25 double-doubles for the Knicks this season. The most remarkable of them was a performance off the bench in November in which he had 23 points, 24 rebounds and 7 assists in a loss to the Chicago Bulls.Kanter joined the Knicks before the start of last season in the trade that sent Carmelo Anthony to Oklahoma City. He became a tabloid sensation because of his willingness to talk openly with reporters, and he occasionally ran afoul of opponents like LeBron James who considered his bark considerably worse than his bite.Kanter has also publicly addressed political issues in his native Turkey, and his criticism of the president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has left him something of a man without a country.Kanter will add depth to a Portland team that currently holds the No. 4 seed in the Western Conference. The Blazers, who already had Evan Turner and Seth Curry contributing off the bench, have added two prominent pieces, Kanter and Rodney Hood, a small forward acquired in a trade with Cleveland last week.Kanter’s play did not decline appreciably this season, but with the Knicks committed to a youth movement — and to keeping their win total low in pursuit of the No. 1 pick in the draft — there was no place for a productive center whose contract was set to expire at the end of this season. After acquiring DeAndre Jordan to help with the development of the rookie center Mitchell Robinson, the Knicks were unable to find a taker for Kanter, so they released him.Kanter had publicly complained about his treatment by the Knicks, but he wrote an open letter to fans after his release on Feb. 7, saying the team had always made him feel at home and that New York would always have “a special place in my heart.”Knicks Coach David Fizdale, who did not play Kanter in six of his last eight games with the team, said last week that he thought the decision to part ways could be good for Kanter.“I’m just hoping that he can land with a playoff team and get his feet wet into some winning,” Fizdale told reporters.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanIn what could be a major blow to the upstart Nets, Spencer Dinwiddie, who has dominated in a bench role this season, could miss significant time with a right thumb injury.A serious contender for the N.B.A.’s Sixth Man of the Year Award, Dinwiddie, a fifth-year guard, has averaged 17.2 points and 5.0 assists a game, regularly coming through in big moments for the Nets, one of the most surprising teams in the N.B.A.The news of Dinwiddie’s injury was first reported by Caron Butler, a former N.B.A. star who began working for Fox Sports Radio shortly after announcing his retirement last February, rather than by the team or a reporter.Brooklyn Nets All star in the making Spencer Dinwiddie has had his hand examined one of the top hand specialist in the country. He has torn ligaments in his finger He will get two other evaluations to confirm the diagnosis before a decision is made about further action ..The injury was then confirmed by the Nets, with the team saying more information would be provided once the diagnosis had been completed.[The Nets Are Looking Really Good, Even From London]Dinwiddie, 25, was a second-round pick of the Detroit Pistons in 2015, but after failing to catch on in stints with the Pistons and the Chicago Bulls — and after several stints in the N.B.A.’s development league — he signed with the Nets as a free agent in December 2016.His first season in Brooklyn was fairly uneventful, with an average of 7.3 points a game in a bench role, but last season was thrust into a starting role as a result of injuries to D’Angelo Russell and Jeremy Lin, and he thrived with career-high averages of 12.6 points and 6.6 assists.He came into this season still unsure of his future, talking openly about feeling a lack of security with his place on the team, but he blossomed as the team’s first man off the bench, essentially alternating big games with Russell and serving as his team’s closer in tight games. Ten times this season he has scored 25 or more points off the bench, with his high mark coming on Dec. 12 when he poured in 39 in a win over the Philadelphia 76ers.Dinwiddie’s play has generated some buzz around a potential All-Star appearance. More important, it inspired the team to sign him to a three-year, $34 million contract extension in December.The Nets are already without the team’s second-leading scorer, Caris LeVert, who dislocated his right foot in November. The team has not announced a timetable for Dinwiddie’s return, but should Butler’s reporting prove accurate, the 26-23 Nets, who have risen to the No. 6 seed in the Eastern Conference, could be without their third-leading scorer for quite a while.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAnd the Oscar goes to … the Knicks?Not quite. But the team — and its woeful state as one of the worst teams in the N.B.A. — did get a shout out during the Academy Awards on Sunday night.When Samuel L. Jackson came out with Brie Larson to present the Best Adapted Screenplay award at the Oscars, he had a short preamble, a personal message to Spike Lee, a nominee and a famously devoted Knicks fan through thick and thin.“First of all, Spike, so glad you’re sitting down,” Jackson began. “After 18 consecutive home losses, the Knicks won tonight. I repeat, the Knicks won tonight, defeated San Antonio, 130-118”Jackson’s stats were accurate. The 18-game home losing streak had set a franchise record.Jackson’s news flash drew a laugh from Lee, and also an exclamation. It was not audible on the broadcast, but just about every armchair lip reader believed he said, “We’re trying to tank.”While you might think that the end of a long losing streak would delight a superfan like Lee, there are those Knicks supporters out there who don’t especially want to win many — or any — more games.If the Knicks finish in the bottom three of the N.B.A., they will get the best possible chance, 14 percent, to land the top draft pick in June. A recent injury aside, that is still expected to be the Duke star Zion Williamson. A bottom three finish would also give the Knicks a 40 percent chance at a top three pick.As of Monday morning, the Knicks stand at 12-48, for the second worst record. Despite their win, they look likely to grab a bottom three spot, probably alongside the Phoenix Suns (11-50) and Cleveland Cavaliers (14-46). But the Chicago Bulls are looming, two games “better” than the Cavs.The league actually changed the draft lottery percentages this season in an effort to cut down on tanking, particularly after the 76ers went on a multiyear losing period of terrible play that got them several top picks. A year ago, the worst record offered a full 25 percent chance at No. 1, with the second and third worst teams getting 20 and 16 percent chances.Lee has been the Knicks’ consensus No. 1 fan for years, sitting courtside and not infrequently interacting with players on both teams. Perhaps most infamously, in 1994, he jawed with the Pacers’ Reggie Miller in a conference finals game. Miller went on to the lead the Pacers to victory, drawing a “Thanks a Lot Spike” headline from The New York Daily News.Jackson and Lee have a history as well, with Jackson appearing in “Do the Right Thing,” “School Daze,” “Jungle Fever” and “Mo Better Blues.” They are also both alumni of Morehouse College.In this age of smartphones, there’s a good chance that those at the Oscars who cared already knew the Knicks score, perhaps including Lee.That wasn’t the case in 1976, when Elliott Gould, presenting the award for best editing, alerted the audience that Indiana had won the men’s basketball national championship, 86-68. “I listened to the score before we went out to make the presentation,” he told Grantland. “Literally in the wings, there was a radio there.”By the way, along with his co-writers, Lee won on Sunday, his first competitive Oscar. There is no evidence that “The Ballad of Buster Scruggs” or the other nominees engaged in any tanking.An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of the actor who presented the Academy Award for best editing in 1976. He is Elliott Gould, not Eliott.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinTom Thibodeau, the Minnesota Timberwolves’ coach and president, was abruptly fired on Sunday night — after a 22-point victory.Following a 108-86 rout at home against the LeBron James-less Los Angeles Lakers, Minnesota announced that it had ousted Thibodeau with two and a half seasons left on his five-year contract, and less than two months removed from the trade of the longtime Thibodeau favorite Jimmy Butler to the Philadelphia 76ers.Ryan Saunders, son of the former Timberwolves coach Flip Saunders, was elevated to interim coach with the Wolves at 19-21 — two games behind the eighth-seeded Lakers in the Western Conference. Saunders, 32, will be the N.B.A.’s youngest coach.Thibodeau is the third N.B.A. coach to be fired this season, joining Fred Hoiberg of the Chicago Bulls and Tyronn Lue of the Cleveland Cavaliers.It was widely presumed that Thibodeau would be in trouble at season’s end if he failed to secure a playoff berth after the headline-making deterioration of Minnesota’s relationship with Butler since the end of last season.The timing of this change, though, suggests that the Timberwolves felt a need to create two prime vacancies before Hoiberg finds a new job.The New York Times reported in December that the Wolves would probably be the only N.B.A. team to consider hiring Hoiberg to coach after his unsuccessful stint in Chicago, because of Hoiberg’s close relationship with the Timberwolves’ owner, Glen Taylor.With Hoiberg also expected to be a serious candidate for U.C.L.A.’s coaching vacancy, Minnesota can now contend for his services.ESPN reported Sunday night that the Wolves, though, are determined to keep the coaching and personnel roles separate in the future, meaning Hoiberg — or anyone else they hire — would have to choose one or the other.Thibodeau’s dismissal leaves San Antonio’s Gregg Popovich as the only coach in the 30-team N.B.A. who also holds personnel power as team president. But even Popovich does not operate in that manner, delegating virtually all of his personnel power to the team president, R. C. Buford.The Timberwolves ended a 13-year playoff drought last season by posting a 47-35 record, with Butler and the young center Karl-Anthony Towns emerging as All-Stars.Butler, however, rebuffed Minnesota’s offer of a contract extension in July in the first hint of his discontent. He ultimately asked for a trade days before the start of training camp in September — despite a long association with Thibodeau dating to their days in Chicago.Butler maintained that he had made his desire to leave Minnesota in free agency clear to the Wolves for months. But Thibodeau and his general manager, Scott Layden, did not begin to seek trades for Butler until training camp was underway and ultimately dealt him to Philadelphia on Nov. 12 for a package headlined by Dario Saric and Robert Covington. The team was 4-9 at the time.“I said let’s let it go and see how things worked and I think now, we’ve gone up through halfway through the season and I don’t think we’re where we thought we would be or where we think we should be,” Taylor told The Minneapolis Star-Tribune.“I’m just looking at the results. The results are that I don’t think we should’ve lost against Phoenix or Detroit or New Orleans or Atlanta. Maybe one of those games. We just lost against a bunch of teams that we’re a better team.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free weekly newsletter here.]Andrew Bogut made his return to the N.B.A. on Wednesday, signing a rest-of-the-season contract to rejoin the Golden State Warriors. The reunion came two years to the day since Bogut, the former No. 1 overall selection in the 2005 draft, sustained a gruesome leg injury.Bogut, 34, spent this season starring for the Sydney Kings in his native Australia and, by his own admission, was convinced “that the N.B.A. door had shut.”But the Warriors began lobbying Bogut to rejoin them in December and made it to March with a roster opening for the 7-foot center, who wasn’t available to be signed until the Kings’ season ended last weekend.“I was kind of blown away,” Bogut said in a telephone interview from Australia. “This wasn’t a situation where I threw my hat in the ring to try to get signed in the N.B.A. I wouldn’t do that.“To come back to the N.B.A., for me, was basically Golden State or nothing. But the fact it was Golden State — it was the kind of opportunity that I would be kicking myself if I didn’t take.”When Bogut signed a two-year deal with Sydney last April, he described it as “my official retirement from the N.B.A.” He proceeded to win Most Valuable Player and Defensive Player of the Year honors in Australia’s National Basketball League, averaging 11.4 points, 11.6 rebounds, 3.4 assists and 2.7 blocks per game.Bogut’s contract with Sydney does not contain an N.B.A. release clause, but he told the Warriors that he would entertain the prospect of rejoining them on a short-term basis after the Australian season — as long as Sydney officials blessed it — should Golden State still have a need.Had the Warriors succeeded in landing a recent free agent from the so-called “buyout” market — such as the swingman Wesley Matthews, who opted to sign with Indiana after securing his release from the Knicks — they would have had no roster room for Bogut.But once it became clear that the Chicago Bulls would refuse to release the veteran center Robin Lopez before March 1, thus missing deadline for Lopez to retain his playoff eligibility with a new team, Golden State intensified its pursuit of Bogut as soon as the Kings were eliminated from the N.B.L. playoffs.As the Warriors continue to try to assimilate the former All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins into their rotation, Bogut said he had “no illusions” about the fact that “some games I’ll play and some games I won’t.” But Bogut insisted he was “happy to be a positive influence on that bench” no matter how much he plays.The Warriors assistant general manager Larry Harris, who was Milwaukee’s general manager in 2005 when the Bucks selected Bogut with the top pick in the draft, made a recent scouting trip to Australia to assess the state of Bogut’s game firsthand and convey the seriousness of Golden State’s interest.Warriors Coach Steve Kerr referred to Bogut as “an insurance policy in the frontcourt.” But Bogut’s defensive know-how and his familiarity with the Warriors’ star trio of Stephen Curry, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green certainly can’t hurt the league’s prohibitive championship favorites in the quest to improve on their woeful standing of 16th in defensive efficiency (109.5 points allowed per 100 possessions.)“I didn’t foresee this happening but I’m excited as hell about it,” Green told Bay Area reporters. He and Bogut quickly meshed as co-anchors of a vaunted Golden State defense in 2014-15, when the Warriors began their five-season run of dominance.After the Warriors won a league-record 73 games in 2015-16 but blew a 3-1 lead to the LeBron James-led Cavaliers in the N.B.A. finals, Bogut and the veteran forward Harrison Barnes were quickly jettisoned to Dallas to create the requisite salary-cap space for Golden State to sign Kevin Durant.Bogut, though, said that returning to the Warriors nearly three years later to play alongside Durant would not “be weird” despite the contentious nature of his departure.“The Golden State Warriors are a very special organization in my heart,” Bogut said. “I had a lot of great years there and won a championship. Even though they moved me, it was understandable to get a guy like Kevin Durant. I probably would have traded myself if I had the same opportunity.”It was Bogut’s longtime agent, David Bauman of Independent Sports and Entertainment, who first pointed out to him that Wednesday’s signing with the Warriors coincided with the two-year anniversary of the fractured tibia in his left leg that Bogut sustained 56 seconds into his Cleveland Cavaliers debut in March 2017.“It’s just funny how the world works sometimes,” Bogut said. “This is an unbelievable opportunity that I’m really thankful for.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperCHARLOTTE, N.C. — After two weeks of Anthony Davis’s trade request dominating conversation around the N.B.A., Commissioner Adam Silver on Saturday sounded sanguine about any possible negative effects it was having on the league.“Some of the greatest players in the history of this league have demanded trades at various points of their contracts,” he said at his annual All-Star weekend address. He went on to say that there was “very little” he could do to completely stop players from trying to force trades.Davis was fined $50,000 for the public trade request made by his agent, Rich Paul. Silver said it was healthy for players and their agents to have ongoing conversations with their teams about future intentions, but that he preferred that such conversations happen behind closed doors. As for the frenzy of news media attention surrounding Davis and his possible destination this summer, Silver said the “public spectacle” wasn’t the type of media interest the league wanted.“We certainly are becoming a 52-week-a-year sport, and it’s largely the result of tremendous interest in these players,” he said. “I think we could do a better job as a league in avoiding those situations where they get to the point where players are maybe demanding they be traded or, worst-case scenario, saying, ‘I’m not going to honor my contract.’”[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]Silver has frequently stated a desire to improve the N.B.A.’s competitive balance. Asked whether small-market teams could compete with large-market franchises, Silver largely disputed the premise without even citing the fact that the Milwaukee Bucks, a small-market club, currently have the best winning percentage in the league.He took the opposite approach.“I’m not even sure where the line is anymore on big markets,” he said, pointing out that the Los Angeles Lakers, New York Knicks and Chicago Bulls — teams that play in major cities — have struggled on the court in recent years.Silver also said it was too early to judge whether reforms to the draft lottery, intended to reduce the incentive to tank in pursuit of a high draft pick, were having the intended effect. Four teams this year are on pace to win fewer than 20 games, but Silver said there is also an unusually large number still in contention for a playoff berth.“I personally don’t think it is a winning strategy over the long term, losing for multiple years,” said Silver. He also said that choosing to be uncompetitive for an extended period of time would most likely have a “corrosive’’ effect on any team that took that approach.Taken together, Silver’s responses to questions suggested that he was relatively happy with the state of the N.B.A. and believed that the league’s problems could be solved through tweaks to the system, not wholesale changes.Silver opened the news conference by addressing House Bill 2, the law passed in North Carolina in 2016 that invalidated local government ordinances establishing anti-discrimination protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people and required people in publicly owned buildings to use restrooms that corresponded with the genders listed on their birth certificates. In response to the law, the N.B.A. took the All-Star Game, originally scheduled to be played in Charlotte in 2017, away from the city.He said it was the view of the league office that the law discriminated against the LGBTQ community, and subsequently the N.B.A. made the decision that it was “inconsistent with the values of this league to play the All-Star Game here under those circumstances.” The N.B.A. decided to return after the law was partially repealed.Asked about efforts to improve the culture of the Dallas Mavericks, where a league investigation found numerous instances of sexual harassment and improper conduct among employees, Silver offered few specifics but said there was a “complete sea change in culture on the business side” of the organization.Earlier Saturday, the N.B.A., in partnership with the International Basketball Federation, announced the formation of the Basketball Africa League, a 12-team professional league made up of clubs from across Africa. The league will begin play in 2020, the first time that the N.B.A. will be involved in the operation of a league outside of North America.Many details, including which clubs from which countries will be part of the league, have yet to be finalized, but Silver did say that former President Barack Obama would be involved in the league in an unspecified capacity.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. said Monday that it required the New Orleans Pelicans to play Anthony Davis, their disgruntled All-Star, after he was not traded before last week’s trade deadline because of “league rules governing competitive integrity.”The Pelicans initially planned to sit Davis for the rest of the season once they responded to his request to be traded by deciding to keep him beyond Thursday’s deadline, according to two people familiar with New Orleans’ stance who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.But the league office said it intervened because of its rules about resting healthy players, which are in place largely to prevent teams from weakening their rosters intentionally to incur losses that could improve their draft position in June. The practice is known as “tanking.”The Pelicans maintain that they were trying to protect Davis from a serious injury during the final 28 regular-season games before the off-season, when they do intend to trade him after they field offers from a wider base of teams than those who made competitive offers last week, according to the people.Mike Bass, an N.B.A. spokesman, said Monday that “the Pelicans were advised that the team had not identified a proper basis” to hold Davis out of games.“League rules governing competitive integrity therefore require that he be permitted to play,” Bass said.Bass also denied an ESPN report from last week that said the Pelicans were threatened by the league with per-game fines of $100,000 if they sat Davis when he wanted to play.[With Anthony Davis on His Way Out, New Orleans Tries to Plot Its Path]Davis, who can become a free agent in July 2020, requested a trade from the Pelicans on Jan. 28 but did not insist that he be traded before the deadline, The Times reported last week. As part of the trade request, Davis also told the Pelicans that he intended to decline their offer of a $240 million contract extension in July and that the Los Angeles Lakers and the Knicks were the two teams he was most open to signing a long-term deal with.Upon learning of New Orleans’ plans to sit Davis after the Pelicans and Lakers broke off days of contentious trade talks, Davis’s agent, Rich Paul, lobbied league officials on Davis’s behalf to clear him to play, according to the people.Both Paul and Michele Roberts, head of the N.B.A. Players Association, declined to comment Monday.“Anthony Davis will play the remainder of the 2018-19 season for the New Orleans Pelicans,” New Orleans General Manager Dell Demps said in a statement last week. “A number of factors contributed to this decision. Ultimately Anthony made it clear to us that he wants to play and gives our team the best opportunity to win games. Moreover the Pelicans want to preserve the integrity of the game and align our organization with N.B.A. policies. We believe Anthony playing upholds the values that are in the best interest of the N.B.A. and its fans. We look forward to seeing Anthony in a Pelicans uniform soon.”Davis has since appeared in two games with New Orleans, averaging 28.5 points and 12.5 rebounds in 29.5 minutes per game in a win (over Minnesota) and a defeat (in Memphis).The N.B.A. has been increasingly vigilant in sanctioning teams for resting healthy players since an incident in November 2012, when the San Antonio Spurs were fined $250,000 for sending Tim Duncan, Tony Parker, Manu Ginobili and Danny Green home with virtually no notice before a nationally televised game in Miami.This season, though, several players with smaller profiles than Davis have been shelved by their teams in anticipation of a trade without any public pushback from the N.B.A.Like Davis, Chandler Parsons of Memphis and Carmelo Anthony, the former Houston Rocket, wanted to play but were benched for months. Parsons has since rejoined the Grizzlies after they were unable to find a new home for him via trade before the deadline; Anthony spent more than two months in exile before the Rockets traded him to the Chicago Bulls on Jan. 21. Anthony became a free agent on Feb. 3 after the Bulls released him and he cleared waivers.Cleveland’s J.R. Smith and Zach Randolph, the former Sacramento King who was traded to Dallas last week, have also been inactive for long spells this season — but both by mutual agreement with their teams.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherTwo top N.B.A. teams battling into double overtime. Memorable individual performances. And points, points, points. Thursday night’s game between the San Antonio Spurs and the Oklahoma City Thunder set a handful of records, but it was the Spurs who won, 154-147.LaMarcus Aldridge had his best night. Although he has averaged 20 points or more regularly, and frequently winds up in the 30s and 40s, Aldridge had never scored 50 points in an N.B.A. game until Thursday. And at halftime, it didn’t look as if Thursday would be the night, either; Aldridge had only 14 points. But a strong second half took him to 43, and the two overtimes gave him the extra minutes he needed to reach 56, a new career high.He tallied the 56 with six layups, three dunks, 11 midrange shots and 16 free throws. Notably, the 6-foot-11 Aldridge attempted no 3-pointers, which have powered most of the recent record-setting offensive performances in the modern N.B.A. (That was not surprising; Aldridge is only 2 for 14 on the year from distance.) Still, in padding his scoring in 1s and 2s, Aldridge became the first player to score 50 points without attempting a 3-pointer since Jermaine O’Neal had 55 for the Indiana Pacers in 2005.It was the most points by a Spurs player since David Robinson scored 71 in 1994, and the most against the Thunder franchise since Tom Chambers of the Suns poured in 60 against the team — then still the Seattle SuperSonics — in 1990.It wasn’t just the field goals. Aldridge was 16 of 16 on free throws, ranking second this season for perfection from the line. (James Harden had a 19-of-19 performance against the Detroit Pistons in November.) He also pitched in on defense, blocking four Thunder shots.“Well, he’s been a beast all year long,” Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich told ESPN after the game. “He anchors us on both ends of the floor.”As one might expect, Aldridge took a lot of shots in posting his big number. His 33 attempts were the most for a Spurs player since Tony Parker took 36 shots in a game in 2008.The other Spurs couldn’t miss from 3. While Aldridge stayed mostly down low, his teammates fired away from behind the 3-point line with almost superhuman accuracy, making 16 of 19 attempts. Their percentage, .842, was the highest ever for a team that took at least 10 3-pointers in a game, surpassing a 14-of-17 (.824) performance by the Chicago Bulls in 2005. It was a balanced attack, too, with Marco Belinelli going 5 for 5, Davis Bertans 4 for 4 and Bryn Forbes 3 for 3.The Thunder challenged some records of their own. Russell Westbrook had 24 assists in the loss, the second-highest total of the century, trailing only Rajon Rondo’s 25 for the Pelicans last season. That was part of a triple-double: Westbrook also had 24 points and 13 rebounds. That particular combination of at least 20 points, 10 rebounds and 20 assists is a rarity; it has been done only 12 times in the N.B.A. since 1960, and only one other time this century, in 2016 — by Westbrook.The scoreboard took a pounding. The combined 301 points in the game was the most since 2006, when the Suns and Nets combined to put up 318 in a double-overtime game. The Spurs’ 154 points were the most they had scored in a game since 1990.Both teams will enjoy a day off Friday, then suit up again on Saturday — in a rematch in Oklahoma City. Based on Thursday’s performances, that suddenly has become one of the most anticipated regular-season games in years.An earlier version of this article gave incorrect historical context for one superlative for LaMarcus Aldridge. He scored the most points by a Spur since David Robinson in 1994, not since George Gervin in 1978.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherTiger Woods hadn’t won a major in 11 years. He had struggled through injury and personal crises. He was dismissed as finished, his years of dominance fading into memory.Then on Sunday he won the Masters again, at age 43.When athletes begin to fade, it’s usually all over. But a select few have returned in triumph, defying setbacks or Father Time.The comeback most people thought of when Woods won Sunday was the Masters victory by Jack Nicklaus at age 46 in 1986. Nicklaus had not won a major in six years and became the oldest player to win the Masters.Even more incredible was the return of Ben Hogan at the 1950 U.S. Open. His car had collided head-on with a Greyhound bus in Texas in 1949, and Hogan was nearly killed. After two months in the hospital, and a year recovering, he returned to golf and won the Open. He added five more major championships over the next three years.After three straight championships with the Chicago Bulls from 1991 to ’93, Michael Jordan decided to give baseball a try. A .200 batting average in the minor leagues made him a figure of ridicule for many fans and commentators, and the N.B.A. moved on.Then as abruptly as he retired, Jordan came back in 1995. In his first three full seasons, the Bulls won three more titles. Jordan retired again in 1999, generally considered the best player in basketball history. (A second comeback, with the Washington Wizards, was less successful.)After Muhammad Ali declined to serve in the military during the Vietnam War, he was stripped of his heavyweight title and was unable to box for three years.When he was able to get relicensed in 1970, he resumed a career that is regularly cited as the greatest. He regained his title in 1974 and battled through three immortal fights against Joe Frazier.George Foreman, from whom Ali recaptured the heavyweight title in 1974, hung up the gloves in 1977. But 10 years later, at 38, he decided to return to the ring. After a series of wins, he got a shot at the title at age 42, but lost to Evander Holyfield. He kept boxing, though, and got another improbable title shot in 1994 at 45 years old. Incredibly, he beat the champion, Michael Moorer, and won three more fights before losing in his final bout in 1997 at age 48.Roger Federer’s win at the Australian Open in 2017, at age 35, was his first major title in five years and capped a comeback from back injuries and knee surgery. Beating Rafael Nadal in that final showed Federer could defeat the younger rivals who had flummoxed him during his drought. In 2018, he won the Australian Open again, for his 20th major title, and returned to No. 1.Jennifer Capriati was written off after her career as a teen star was derailed by personal problems. She quit the tour for two years and dropped out of the rankings. But she returned in 1996 a more mature player and won the Australian Open in 2001 at 24. She became world No. 1 and added two more Grand Slam titles.But the most inspiring tennis comeback undoubtedly belonged to Monica Seles, who was stabbed by a deranged fan on the court in 1993. She was 19, No. 1 and an eight-time major singles champion at the time. Seles struggled with her injuries and with understandable anxiety after the attack. Still, she returned to win the 1996 Australian Open and make three other Grand Slam finals.Quarterback Doug Williams helped lead the Tampa Bay Buccaneers to the 1979 N.F.C. championship game. But after a salary dispute in 1982, he left to join the fledgling U.S.F.L.When that league folded, Williams caught on as a backup to Jay Schroeder for the Washington Redskins in 1987. But Williams earned the starting job just before the playoffs and led the team to a Super Bowl title, the first black quarterback ever to do so.Aldiniti was a solid steeplechaser in Britain in the late 1970s before sustaining a bad leg injury. At about the same time, the jockey Bob Champion learned he had testicular cancer. Once both had recovered, they were paired for the 1981 Grand National and won it. Their triumph was turned into a 1984 movie, “Champions,” starring John Hurt.Honorable mention goes to Da Hoss. He won the 1996 Breeders’ Cup Mile, then raced only once in two years. Yet in his return to the Mile in 1998, he won it again, causing the race announcer Tom Durkin to proclaim it “the greatest comeback since Lazarus.”Greg LeMond became the first American to win the Tour de France in 1986 and seemed poised to reel off several more. But the next year he was accidentally shot while turkey hunting, hit by several dozen pellets, including some in his heart lining.He returned to the Tour in 1989 in poor form and was considering retirement. But he strengthened as the race went along and won it in one of the most famous finishes ever, beating his rival Laurent Fignon in a time trial on the Champs-Élysées. The final margin was the closest in history: eight seconds. LeMond went on to win another Tour the next year.Tommy John had a strong 12-year career as a pitcher for the Indians, White Sox and Dodgers. But in 1974 he sustained an injury to the ulnar collateral ligament of the elbow, which usually meant the end of pitchers’ careers.John decided to try an untested, speculative surgery, now known as Tommy John surgery. In the procedure, now routine, a tendon from elsewhere in the patient is removed and replaces the damaged one in the elbow.John missed the 1975 season, but returned the next season at 33. He had three more All-Star appearances and three 20-game win seasons before finally retiring in 1989 at 46.An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to Jack Nicklaus’s win at the 1986 Masters at age 46. It made him the oldest man to win the Masters, not the oldest man to win a golf major. (Julius Boros was 48 when he won the 1968 P.G.A. Championship.)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPITTSBURGH — Casey DeSmith has seen it at every stop of his hockey career. Practice comes, the focus shifts to defending and the guys paid lavishly to score goals take their foot off the gas."I've had people on every single team I've ever played on like that, obviously," the Pittsburgh Penguins goaltender said. "It just comes with the territory of being a gifted offensive player."There is an exception. Then again, there almost always is when it comes to Sidney Crosby.The Penguins captain — whose resume is stuffed with six 100-point seasons, a pair of scoring titles and two Hart Trophies as the NHL's Most Valuable Player — has long been respected and feared for his creative playmaking.It's his leadership and conscientious approach to every aspect of the game while stewarding the Penguins through a rocky season to a 13th straight playoff berth that has put the 31-year-old into the conversation for the Selke Trophy, given annually to the NHL's top defensive forward.Both the metrics and the eye test heading into Pittsburgh's first-round matchup with the New York Islanders provide a compelling case.Crosby won more than 55% of his faceoffs this season, his best mark since 2009-10. He blocked 43 shots and took away the puck from an opponent 54 times, the second-highest total of his career. After a talk with coach Mike Sullivan last fall, Crosby occasionally found himself killing penalties, a role he embraced and would have happily kept doing if not for concerns over his workload.Still, there are situations when Sullivan knows he needs the star he calls "the best 200-foot player in the game" to go do his thing. Nursing a one-goal lead late against Carolina on March 31, Sullivan sent Crosby over the boards over and over and over as the clock dwindled. Pittsburgh held the Hurricanes at bay and emerged with a crucial 3-1 win."He was out there three of the last five minutes, defending the six-on-five, defending the five-on-four," Sullivan said. "He was the one guy that was dominant in the faceoff circle. I thought his defensive effort was on display."Hall of Famer Sergei Fedorov was the last player to capture the Selke while scoring 100 points, doing it for Detroit in 1996. Crosby has an outside shot at joining that exclusive company when the league awards are announced in June. Not that Crosby, who has never finished higher than seventh in Selke voting, seems to care."I'm still trying to figure it out, to be honest with you," Crosby said. "I think it's still something, you're trying to ingrain those habits and be in the right positions. I think experience helps that. You realize that it can help you offensively to be good defensively too. It's not as bad as sometimes you think it needs to be. I think that's part of it."Or maybe more than a part of it.Pittsburgh center Matt Cullen, at 42 the league's oldest player, has carved out a 21-year career due in large part to his defensive expertise. Around the time he hit 30, Cullen knew he needed to find different ways to contribute beyond trying to put the puck in the net if he wanted to stick around. He sees Crosby taking some of the same steps not out of necessity but by choice, which makes it all the more impressive."I think Sid's the best example of a guy that has that growth mindset as far as he's never completely satisfied with where he's at," Cullen said. "He's always evolving and learning and adapting to different situations."Cullen likened Crosby to Michael Jordan, who was named to the NBA's All-Defensive team nine times in addition to winning 10 scoring titles and leading the Chicago Bulls to six championships."Sid's accepted all the challenges of playing against the top lines and then going out and scoring, too," Cullen said.Forward Jared McCann arrived in a trade with Florida on Feb. 1. The 22-year-old grew up admiring Crosby from afar. The up-close look has been even more revealing. McCann will find himself transfixed on Crosby's No. 87 during film sessions, studying the subtle aspects of Crosby's play in Pittsburgh's end looking for tips that might translate to his own game, be it positioning, physicality or a sense on knowing where the puck is headed before it gets there."I kind of catch myself moving a little bit too much, kind of circling too much," McCann said. "I see him stop his feet and then read the play, see where it's going to go and then go. I feel like as a young player, as much as you can watch him in the defensive zone, you should learn from him."Coach Peter Laviolette has spent more than a decade trying to find ways to deal with Crosby during stops in Carolina, Philadelphia and now Nashville, with only occasional success."Never once did it cross my mind to think maybe we could put somebody on the ice and take advantage of him," Laviolette said. "It's just that I think his offense overshadows (his defense) sometimes because he's an elite offensive player."Which Sullivan believes separates Crosby from annual Selke contenders like Boston's Patrice Bergeron and Los Angeles' Anze Kopitar."He's the most dangerous guy with the puck," Sullivan said. "He also has the ability to score goals at the other end of the rink in quick strike better than any of the other players in conversation."Opportunities that typically begin with Crosby in the defensive zone, doing the dirty work others won't in an effort to produce the highlights few can."His ability to win faceoffs, his puck protection, his strength on the puck, his ability to control the game, all of those things, as important as they are on the offensive side of the puck, they're just as important on the defensive side," Predators defenseman PK Subban said."When he decides, he's going to come back into the zone, get the puck and take it out of the zone, he's going to do it."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe All-Star Anthony Davis shook the N.B.A. out of its sleepy run-up to the league’s annual trade deadline on Monday by formally requesting a trade away from the New Orleans Pelicans.Rich Paul, Davis’s agent, confirmed Monday via text message that he had personally notified Pelicans General Manager Dell Demps that Davis wants to be moved, in conjunction with Paul informing them that Davis would not sign an estimated $240 million contract extension that New Orleans planned to offer in July at the first allowable moment.The Pelicans responded with a forceful statement in which they implored the league to monitor the situation for potential tampering violations and declared that its roster moves would not be “dictated by those outside of our organization.”Statement from the New Orleans Pelicans regarding Anthony Davis: https://t.co/6GRRcpZMt5 pic.twitter.com/TrrkOpU2ABIt has been widely assumed in league circles that the Pelicans would be forced to trade Davis if he signaled he was unwilling to sign a contract extension, or if he took the step of formally requesting a trade, rather than face the prospect of losing the 6-foot-10 Davis, one of the league’s best players, without compensation.Yet it is unclear if New Orleans will accommodate Davis’s demand quickly or let the season’s most closely watched trade drama drag beyond the Feb. 7 trade deadline. Many rival executives expect the Pelicans to go the latter route, since they may receive stronger trade offers starting in mid-May, once the order is set for June’s N.B.A. draft.“They haven’t said much,” Paul said of whether New Orleans officials had revealed their thinking. “But we wanted to do the right thing to let them know by the deadline so they could do what’s best for the organization going forward.”Paul also said he had not yet given New Orleans a preferred trade destination for Davis. But Davis realistically will have a huge say in where he lands by virtue of his ability to become a free agent in July 2020; any team looking to acquire him this year would be unlikely to surrender meaningful trade assets for a player it could not be certain of re-signing.Several hours after news of Davis’s trade request became public, New Orleans issued a terse statement which said: “Relative to specific talks of a trade, we will do this on our timeline — one that makes sense for our team.” The team added: “We have also requested the league to strictly enforce the tampering rules associated with this transaction.”The last sentence could be interpreted as a reference to Paul’s longtime relationship with his star client — LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers — since the Lakers have been considered the league’s most ardent suitor for Davis for months.Davis also faces possible league discipline because the N.B.A. typically fines players when they, or their representatives, publicly request a trade.“We commenced an investigation this morning upon reading the reports regarding Anthony Davis,” the N.B.A. spokesman Mike Bass said Monday. “That process is ongoing.”Teams such as the Knicks and Davis’s hometown Chicago Bulls are among the many clubs expected to join the Lakers in pursuing a trade for Davis over the days leading to the 3 p.m. trade deadline on Feb. 7. Yet it might behoove New Orleans to wait until closer to the draft to get serious about dealing its franchise player.That is because the Boston Celtics, regarded for some time as the Lakers’ foremost challenger in the long-anticipated trade sweepstakes for Davis, are ineligible to acquire Davis via trade while the All-Star guard Kyrie Irving is on Boston’s roster. League rules preclude one team from having two players on the designated rookie scale contract extensions possessed by both Davis and Irving.With a record of 22-28 in a season marred by numerous injuries, New Orleans had slipped to 13th in the Western Conference entering Monday’s play and looked increasingly unlikely to make a playoff run. The Pelicans, though, are under no obligation to trade Davis and could decide to wait until after the season, when the Celtics would be able to join the bidding. Irving has the ability to become a free agent on July 1 by declining the $21.3 million player option he holds for next season.Knicks Coach David Fizdale tried to downplay his team’s interest in Davis on Monday. But the Knicks — who were already planning to make a free-agent run in July at the likes of Kevin Durant and Irving — could emerge as a team to watch for Davis if they show a willingness to make trade assets such as the star forward Kristaps Porzingis, their prized rookie Kevin Knox and this June’s likely top-five draft pick part of any discussions.Although Davis has missed the Pelicans’ last four games with a finger injury, Coach Alvin Gentry told reporters Monday that he expects Davis back in the lineup soon. Davis, according to Gentry, plans to play out the season even if New Orleans elects to keep him past next week’s trade deadline.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThere's no LeBron James in these playoffs, so the NBA Finals will have a distinctly new look for the first time in nine years.There's no Tony Parker, for the first time in nearly two decades.There's no Dwyane Wade, and he'll never play a playoff game again.San Antonio is in the postseason for a record-tying 22nd consecutive season. Brooklyn, Denver, Detroit, Orlando and the Los Angeles Clippers got into these playoffs after watching the postseason last year.As always at playoff time, there are some familiar things and some not-so-familiar things. With the postseason set to begin Saturday, here's 10 things to know going into the best time of the NBA year:DRIVE FOR FIVEGolden State is trying to reach the NBA Finals for the fifth consecutive season.If the Warriors get there, they would be the second franchise ever with such a streak — joining only the Boston Celtics, who went there in 10 straight seasons from 1957-66.The Warriors are one of five franchises with a streak of four straight NBA Finals trips: the Los Angeles Lakers did it from 1982-85, the Celtics also did it from 1984-87, the Miami Heat did it from 2011-14 and the Cleveland Cavaliers did it from 2015-18.Golden State is also seeking its seventh championship in franchise history. That would put the Warriors in sole possession of third place on the NBA's most-titles list, behind Boston (17) and the Lakers (16).The Warriors and Chicago are currently tied for third with six championships each.BLOWOUT BUCKSMilwaukee had 45 double-digit wins this season, the most in the NBA.That's a really good omen for the Bucks.Only four teams in NBA history have posted more double-digit wins in a regular season than the Bucks this year. Those clubs are the 1971-72 Los Angeles Lakers (50), the 2016-17 Golden State Warriors (48), the 1970-71 Bucks (47) and the 1995-96 Chicago Bulls (46).All four of those teams went on to win the NBA championship.MR. 3000?Houston's James Harden scored 2,818 points in the regular season, which puts him on the cusp of joining a very elite club.If Harden scores 182 in the playoffs, that will give him a total of 3,000 — and he would be the 10th player in NBA history to score that many in a full season, postseason included. The others: Michael Jordan (10 times), Wilt Chamberlain (five times), Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Rick Barry, Elgin Baylor, Kobe Bryant, Kevin Durant, Bob McAdoo and Shaquille O'Neal.Durant was the last to do it, in 2013-14.LeBron James almost got into the club last year, coming as close as humanly possible — he scored 2,999 points for Cleveland.WELCOME BACKKawhi Leonard's last postseason appearance ended earlier than planned, when he hurt his left ankle while taking a jumper over Golden State's Zaza Pachulia in Game 1 of the 2017 Western Conference finals. Pachulia closed out aggressively, Leonard didn't have space to land safely and he missed the rest of that series.When Leonard left the game, he and San Antonio were up by 23. The Spurs lost that lead, lost the game, lost the series and Leonard never played a postseason second with the Spurs again after that bad landing.Toronto is hoping that Leonard can rekindle his typical postseason magic in his playoff return.Leonard enters these playoffs with a 32-game streak of double-digit postseason outings, averaging 24.1 points in those contests.STEPH RISINGWarriors guard Stephen Curry is on pace to catch Ray Allen and become the NBA's all-time 3-point leader sometime in the 2020-21 season.That stat only takes regular-season games into account. In the postseason, Curry is about to become No. 1.Curry has 378 career postseason 3s, good for No. 2 on the NBA's all-time playoff list. Allen is No. 1, with 385.PLAYOFF CASHThe 16 playoff teams are playing for the Larry O'Brien Trophy, for rings, for a parade ... and for a stake of $21,676,510.That's the amount of this year's NBA Playoff Pool — a record.Every playoff team is assured of some of the pie, which is often used to fund bonuses for players and team staff.So far, all 16 teams are due at least $323,506 each. Most have already clinched much more because finishing in the top six spots in each conference also comes with a bonus. For example, Milwaukee — because it had the best record in the NBA — is already due $1,495,750.Teams get an additional $384,930 for winning a first-round series. Conference finalists get another $638,094. The losing team in the NBA Finals gets another $2,543,681 and the NBA champs get one more payout of $3,838,798.Add it all up, and the Bucks could get $6,355,572 if they win the title. No other team can win that much.HOUSTON, A PROBLEM?Houston is the No. 4 seed in the Western Conference, and faces No. 5 seed Utah in the first round.History suggests the Rockets are in trouble.In each of the last seven seasons, and nine of the last 10, the No. 5 team in the West has beaten the No. 4 team in the first round.Utah has won each of its last five appearances in a 4-versus-5 series. The fifth-seeded Jazz knocked off Oklahoma City in 2018, the Los Angeles Clippers in 2017 and Denver in 2010. The Jazz were seeded No. 4 when they won a 4-versus-5 series in 2007 and 2008 — both of those coming against Houston.BOOGIE'S DEBUTDeMarcus Cousins is No. 1 on a list that nobody wants to lead.By this weekend, he'll be off the list entirely.Cousins has played in 565 regular-season games and zero postseason games. That'll change this weekend when he and Golden State play host to the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 1 of a Western Conference first-round series.No active NBA player has been in more regular-season games without a playoff appearance than Cousins. When he plays for the Warriors this weekend, and when Kyle O'Quinn — currently No. 2 on the list with 443 regular-season games without a postseason minute — plays for Indiana, the new active leader in games played without a postseason appearance will be Brandon Knight.He's played in 421 and is still looking for his first playoff outing.MILESTONE COMINGSometime in the next couple of months, the 4,000th playoff game in NBA history will be played.There have been 3,934 postseason contests so far. Based on the way last season went, the milestone game will come late in the conference-semifinal round or early in the conference-final round.FINALS STARTThis season's NBA Finals start May 30. It'll be the earliest Game 1 of the title series since 1986, when Boston and Houston opened their series on May 26.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballThe rare N.B.A. star willing to lean into his role as a villain, Butler, briefly back in the city he scorned, is ready to absorb fans’ anger.By Marc SteinJimmy Butler knows what’s coming on Saturday night in Minneapolis. He understands, relishes and even encourages the looming prospect of the chilliest welcome any visiting N.B.A. player is bound to receive this season.“They’re going to boo me,” Butler said of the Minnesota fans who watched him force his way out of town via a trade to the Philadelphia 76ers in November — months after Butler led the woebegone Timberwolves to their first playoff berth in 14 seasons.“I would boo me, too. I’m not going to lie to you.”Now a key member of what is widely regarded as the most potent starting lineup on the N.B.A. map outside of Golden State, Butler will be back at Target Center for the first time since the trade turmoil that captivated the league for the first two months of the season.Butler insisted he was unfazed by what awaited him, and went on to suggest that a number of his Philadelphia colleagues, as well as some longtime friends who plan to be in attendance, will partake in the inevitable hostilities.“I might actually join in on the boos,” Butler said.Those who have spent any time around the rugged swingman surely don’t doubt it. At a time when N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver openly frets about player happiness — and when standouts such as Boston’s Kyrie Irving and Golden State’s Kevin Durant routinely rail against the approach of some of the news media — Butler is the rare star who savors the game’s edgy side and has embraced his portrayal as a villain.“I love it,” Butler said in a phone interview, repeating the phrase three times — including once with a profanity for emphasis. “Who wants to be loved all the time?“It’s O.K. It’s fine. I don’t need everybody to like me. I know who I am. I can’t say that enough. I know what I’m about. I know where my heart is. People will say, ‘He’s this way, or he’s that way,’ but nobody knows except for the people around me every day. Ask them and they’ll tell you differently.”Elton Brand, the 76ers’ general manager, certainly falls within that category, describing Butler as “a caring person” who has quickly endeared himself “not only to his teammates but to our whole business operations staff and in the community.”As a first-year general manager, Brand had his own reservations before going through with the first major move of his tenure, having watched chaos engulf the Timberwolves from afar — with no shortage of the noise coming from Butler himself after news leaked of the mid-September trade request he made in private.But when Brand did his research, consulting former coaches and executives who had worked with Butler, along with former players he knew well who had firsthand knowledge, such as Nazr Mohammed and Mike Dunleavy Jr., he received little in the way of dissenting feedback.“Even with the story that was reported, that wasn’t a big deal,” Brand said, referring to an ESPN report in January that asserted Butler “aggressively challenged” Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown. “He didn’t curse. He wasn’t loud. It was his reputation following him.”Butler, 29, admitted in a recent interview with Yahoo Sports’s Chris Haynes that he is a “confrontational” teammate, but that he is also trying to be more selective in showing his blunt nature as he gets older. It should be noted that, as Brand found, Butler has also been a largely popular teammate in his stints with the Chicago Bulls and Team U.S.A. — and, frankly, with numerous Timberwolves apart from the All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.Butler took a hit in some precincts after informing the since-fired coach with whom he’s so closely associated — Tom Thibodeau — that he was no longer interested in trying to nurture Towns and Andrew Wiggins and wanted out of Minnesota. One example of the damage: Butler is one of the top 12 players in the Eastern Conference, but East coaches snubbed him as a reserve for the All-Star Game in February.Yet Butler plays on, insisting he would “do nothing over” in Minnesota and reveling in the knowledge that for the first time in his career, he’s on a team capable of getting to the N.B.A. finals.“I will tell you that we’ve got a lot of talent,” Butler said.The Sixers haven’t established the required consistency to earn the label of East favorites, going 11-6 since the All-Star break with middling placement in both offensive (18th) and defensive (12th) efficiency in that span. Butler, though, is doing what he can to make it work, sacrificing in a manner that would seem to invalidate some of the criticism.Philadelphia followed its trade for Butler on Nov. 12 by acquiring Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers on Feb. 6, giving Brown two All-Star-caliber players to team with the dynamic duo of Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons and the shooter extraordinaire J.J. Redick. In the first 20 games since, when those five players share the floor, Butler has scaled back more than anyone, taking fewer shots (46) than the other four — with Embiid by far in the lead (95 shots).Of course, in fourth quarters, Butler has emerged as the most reliable offensive option of the quintet, shooting 12 for 18 when all five play together, highlighted by last week’s game-winning jumper against Boston after the Celtics had won six of the teams’ seven previous meetings. The natural drop in Butler’s per-game averages this season, playing for such a loaded team, tends to overshadow the fact that he still ranks 16th in the league in a category (Real Plus-Minus) strongly associated with team success.“He’s a special talent at closing and winning games — and not just offensively,” Brand said. “He’s just a winner.”An indication of Butler’s true standing in the game will come July 1, when he becomes an unrestricted free agent for the first time. Brand has said repeatedly that he hopes to keep Philadelphia’s new core four together, but Butler is expected to attract serious interest from both Los Angeles teams as well as the Nets. The Clippers’ special adviser Jerry West, to name one prominent fan, is said to be a longtime admirer of Butler’s two-way impact.Not that Butler is prepared to discuss much about the future. He brushed off free-agency talk in our conversation and claimed that he didn’t even know Minnesota was on this week’s calendar until I told him.He stuck mostly to peripheral subjects. Those include Butler’s devotion to playing dominoes and Uno, his friendship with “the best soccer player in the world” — Paris St.-Germain’s Brazilian star Neymar — and the trusty American football he travels around with. Butler said he plans to toss the football with other 76ers with greater regularity during the playoffs.“I’m telling you — it takes away some of that pressure,” Butler said.Thibodeau still lives in Minneapolis in the wake of his Jan. 6 firing, but politely declined to comment about Butler’s visit. Butler, for his part, continues to refer to Thibodeau as “my guy.” He said they maintained regular contact.Although Butler remains unwilling to dig deeply into the reasons he pushed so hard for an exit so soon after the dramatic impact he had in his lone full season with the Wolves, give him this: He is prepared to take whatever pent-up frustration has been stored up for him in the Twin Cities.Rather than ask for forgiveness from the locals, or even civility, Butler said: “I did what I did. I’m cool with it. I’m in a good place.”He has only one request for the basketball public: Pick someone else to win the East besides the up-and-down Sixers.“Don’t pick us,” Butler said. “I hope people say we’re going to lose in the first round. I don’t want anybody to think we’re that good because I think it makes us play a little bit harder.”Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam ZagoriaAfter Shamorie Ponds of the St. John’s Red Storm fed Mustapha Heron for a rim-rattling dunk before a capacity crowd at Carnesecca Arena in Queens on Tuesday night, Marvin Clark II walked to the center of the court and stood in the middle of the team’s red logo.He faced a crowd of more than 5,000 people, including the tennis legend John McEnroe, and waved his arms to stoke the cheers.Like many of the St. John’s men’s basketball players this season, the 6-foot-7 Clark had seen this sort of thing done before — in other places. He played in a Final Four for Michigan State and Coach Tom Izzo in 2015, notching 10 minutes as a freshman when the Spartans lost to Duke. After his sophomore year, he transferred to St. John’s, where he believed he could play a larger role.Mission accomplished. On Tuesday night, Clark scored 22 points and grabbed 7 rebounds in an 89-69 win over No. 16 Marquette, the most impressive victory this season for Coach Chris Mullin’s resurgent team, which is 13-1 over all entering an early Big East matchup with Georgetown (11-3) on Saturday in Washington.“Coming here, leaving a storied program like Michigan State University, a Hall of Fame coach like Coach Izzo, that’s a big risk, a big gamble,” Clark said of his transfer. “I felt like I could do what I’m doing now. I felt like I had the ability to do it, I just needed a coaching staff to believe in me.”Relying on transfers is not unique in today’s college basketball world. Kansas and Nevada, who are ranked in the top 10, rely on transfers for key roles. But St. John’s has taken the transfer trend to an extreme. Eight of the 13 players on scholarship this season, including Clark, are transfers from other Division I universities or from a junior college. Four of them are starters: Clark and L.J. Figueroa at forward and Heron and Justin Simon at guard. Against Marquette, the four combined for 61 points.Ponds, a former New York City prep star who scored 26 points against Marquette, is the lone homegrown starter.The Red Storm even added another transfer last week and subtracted one this week. The former North Carolina State big man Ian Steere joined the program at the semester break, and Mikey Dixon, who transferred in from Quinnipiac after the 2016-17 season, said on Thursday that he would be transferring out. St. John’s is also expecting two junior college transfers, point guard Cameron Mack and forward Valdir Manuel, for the 2019-20 season.“We’ve brought in players who were at great programs playing for some great coaches, so I believe that’s an advantage,” Mullin said. “Our transfers are a little more locked in, open-minded and accountable.”Transfers from other Division I institutions must sit out a year, unless they receive a waiver, like the one Heron, a former Auburn shooting guard, received. Heron, whose hometown is Waterbury, Conn., was granted a relief waiver to play immediately this season after arguing that he was transferring closer to home to be near his ailing mother. Junior college transfers are eligible immediately.Transfers bring maturity and experience, and can quickly turn a bad program into a good one. At St. John’s, the recent emphasis represents a cultural shift from when Mullin starred at St. John’s in the 1980s. The 1984-85 team he led to the Final Four consisted almost entirely of players from New York and New Jersey who began as freshmen.The N.C.A.A. reported last month that about 40 percent of men’s basketball players who enter Division I directly out of high school depart their initial school by the end of their sophomore year.At St. John’s, the assistant coach Matt Abdelmassih receives credit for building much of the current roster through transfers. Abdelmassih was an assistant at Iowa State under its onetime coach Fred Hoiberg. That team reached the round of 16 of the N.C.A.A. tournament in 2015 with a roster that included half a dozen transfers. Several went on to play professionally. Abdelmassih uses that as a recruiting tool. He tried recruiting Clark to Iowa State, and had Hoiberg not left for the Chicago Bulls, Clark might have landed there. When Clark opted to leave Michigan State, Abdelmassih targeted him for St. John’s.“I wouldn’t say we were the first team to take transfers because that’s been going on forever,” Abdelmassih said. “But I think we were definitely one of the first at building almost an entire roster with the makeup of taking transfers. And it put us on a national stage.”Abdelmassih, who landed at St. John’s in 2015, said he likes the attitude that transfers bring, and it also helps him avoid some of the drama that can sometimes surround high-level high school prospects. He said the transfers often come in with a chip on their shoulder and more humility than freshmen.Entering this season, Mullin was 40-60 at his alma mater through three years, and his teams had never finished better than eighth in the Big East. This year, the Red Storm were picked fourth, and many expect them to be an N.C.A.A. tournament team.“The fact that Marvin Clark and Justin Simon are guys who played at really good programs before and now have gone to play for another good program, I think it’s the reason they’re 13-1 and their shooting percentages are off the charts and they’re as good as they are,” Seton Hall Coach Kevin Willard said.Villanova Coach Jay Wright noted that Mullin was showing he could bring in older players from elsewhere and meld them into a cohesive unit heading into the most important months of the season.“You’ve got veteran college basketball players who have had success together starting conference play,” Wright said. “It’s a really well done job on Chris’s part of being patient and getting these guys ready for the season.”Now Clark is dreaming of a return to the Final Four. “It would immortalize this team forever in New York folklore and it would definitely get this program back to where it needs to be,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaDENVER — The Denver Nuggets’ worst loss of the season was less than 48 hours old when Tim Connelly, the team’s president of basketball operations, found himself courtside before a game against the Chicago Bulls assessing some lessons of the defeat.“A loss is never a positive,” Connelly said, “but we have to be realistic about where we stand. We’ve done nothing, and that team has done everything several times over.”He was referring to the Golden State Warriors, a superstar collective that has demolished its share of opponents in recent years. But what the Warriors did to the Nuggets one night last week was particularly gruesome, in part because Denver had entered the game with a slim lead over Golden State in the N.B.A.’s Western Conference standings.But then, on Jan. 15, in front of a briefly enthusiastic crowd here, the Warriors scored 51 points in the first quarter and sailed to a 142-111 victory that sent a message to everyone on the opposing bench, inside the building and across the league: We are not going anywhere.It was, for one night at least, illustrative of the gulf that still exists between the Warriors and the rest of the N.B.A. While Golden State’s dominance had led many to despair, the Nuggets entered the game ahead in the standings and hopeful that they were bridging the gap. They came out of it understanding that there is still work to be done.“We got a little comfortable,” Nuggets forward Paul Millsap said. “It was a humbling experience for us.”Still, these are heady times for the Nuggets. They are a colorful crew led by Nikola Jokic, a 23-year-old center from Serbia and former second-round pick who facilitates the offense from the high post. In a league full of chiseled gods, Jokic has the dimensions of a melting iceberg. But at 7 feet and 250 pounds, he is a gifted passer and scorer, and he appears bound for his first All-Star Game.His background — unsung prospect, semi-overlooked — is representative of the roster as a whole. Just one player in the team’s regular rotation, the 21-year-old point guard Jamal Murray, was a top-10 lottery pick.Consider Torrey Craig, a 28-year-old forward who has become a full-time starter. Craig went undrafted out of South Carolina Upstate and was plying his trade for the Gold Coast Rollers of the Queensland Basketball League, a semipro circuit in Australia, before he signed a two-way deal with the Nuggets in 2017.“It makes us all dogs,” the shooting guard Malik Beasley said, “because we’ve been underrated our whole lives.”Millsap, 33 and a former second-round pick himself, sees similarities between the Nuggets and one of his former teams, the Atlanta Hawks, a team with little star power that still finished with the best record in the East in 2015.“Egoless guys,” Millsap said. “Guys who don’t care about getting the credit. Guys who go out there and play the game the right way, and I think that’s where these two teams are very similar. I do think this team is a lot more talented than that team. But that team used every inch of talent and every inch of ability to get things done.”Left unsaid: The Nuggets are not using every inch of their talent — not yet, anyway. In the jargon of the game, they have untapped potential, and this is understandable. The Nuggets are as inexperienced as they are precocious. Seven of the team’s top 11 players right now are 24 or younger, and that does not even include Michael Porter Jr., a 20-year-old forward and the 14th pick of the 2018 draft who is not expected to play this season after undergoing back surgery.Coach Michael Malone has consistently praised his players’ work ethic — effort, he said, is not a problem — but he does want them to be more diligent about their mental preparation.“Know who the hell you’re guarding,” Malone said, adding: “I think the guys on our roster — most teams probably have this issue, where they show up to the game, like, ‘Who are we playing tonight?’ And they haven’t done their work, which to me is like a cardinal sin. So we have to do a better job of understanding: Who am I playing? What are his tendencies? And how can I take those away?”In the locker room before the Bulls game, Malone reiterated how much work his staff puts into scouting reports before asking his players what they planned to offer that night in return. Jokic, Malone later recalled, told him he would be aggressive. Murray said he would play hard. As far as pregame chalk talks go, it was boilerplate stuff. But the conversation had added import given the events of the week.“This is part of our journey,” Malone said.Malone got a keener sense of that process from 2011 to 2013, as an assistant with the Warriors under Mark Jackson when Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson were young players learning how to be pros. The Warriors went 23-43 in a lockout-shortened season. But by the 2012-13 season, Curry and Thompson were forming winning habits. Malone recalled a seven-game road trip when the Warriors went 6-1, with their only loss coming against the Orlando Magic after the team spent an extra night in Miami (and perhaps that was no coincidence). But the trip was otherwise an unqualified success.“I think that’s when we, as a team and as an organization said, ‘Man, we have a chance to be pretty good,’ ” he said.The Nuggets have had moments like that this season — beating the Raptors in Toronto on Dec. 3 was a big deal — but they still have a lot of work ahead, Malone said.“We’re a young team that is trying to become a playoff team, and once you become a playoff team, you hope to become a championship team,” Malone said. “You can’t skip steps.”Since Malone was hired by the Nuggets in 2015, they have improved each season, from 33 wins in 2015-16, to 40 wins in 2016-17, to 46 wins last season, when they narrowly missed the playoffs. Malone signed a two-year extension over the summer, and the Nuggets are now on a pace to win 56 games. Their last playoff appearance came in 2013.No less an eminence than Kevin Durant, who, to be fair, joined the Warriors a year after they had won their first championship of the Curry/Thompson era, praised the Nuggets organization.“Continuity,” Durant said. “You don’t fire your coach after a losing season. You’re patient with him. You’re patient with your young players. You let them make mistakes, let them grow.”In the wake of Denver’s loss to the Warriors last week, Malone was pleased to see a renewed commitment to defense in wins over the Bulls and the Cleveland Cavaliers. It was already clear that the team’s loss to Golden State had been something of a formative experience.“It was probably the best thing that could have happened to us,” Millsap said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDALLAS — Whether they are trying to keep their 34-year-old playmaker Jose Juan Barea spry or aiming to help their 19-year-old phenom Luka Doncic dodge the infamous rookie wall, the Dallas Mavericks turn to the same resource: A blood test.It is not just any blood test. The Mavericks import frequent testing from the Irish company Orreco, which is in its third season making personalized recommendations for Mavericks players regarding athletic workloads and diets, largely through the study of blood analysis.Although some in the sports medicine community have questioned whether the value of such blood work is overstated, Dallas leans heavily on Orreco’s team of consultants and their assessments of how to maximize player-readiness.“All the things N.B.A. teams talk about — players’ minutes, their load, their tracking data, their camera data — all of that is external data used to try to predict what’s going on internally,” said Casey Smith, the head of Dallas’s athletic training staff. “What we’re doing is trying to get a little bit of a look at what’s actually going on internally.”Dallas is one of just two N.B.A. teams, along with the Knicks, to hire Orreco, which proposes customized remedies to combat fatigue and tries to identify increased risk for injury and illness by obtaining a range of data from players’ blood and feeding it into machine-learning programs.Taking cues from Orreco’s findings, Smith and Jeremy Holsopple, the Mavericks’ athletic performance director, tailor an individualized mix of training, rest and recovery for each of Dallas’s 17 players. The Mavericks' owner, Mark Cuban, said the team pays Orreco nearly $150,000 per year.No Maverick has embraced this process more than Barea, who understands all too well that fatigued players face an increased risk of soft-tissue injuries.Two seasons ago, amid worrisome forecasts from what Smith referred to as “the numbers,” Barea tore a calf muscle in a November 2016 game against Boston.Ever since, Barea has proactively sought updates on his levels of oxidative stress (worrisome as they get higher) and white blood cell counts (which can indicate illness or infection when they spike or indicate less immune prevention as they get lower).This season, Barea is playing some of his best basketball (averaging 10.9 points and 5.7 assists in just 19.8 minutes per game) and said he is “having more fun than ever” while carefully adhering to the suggestions Smith gives based off Orreco’s data.“I like it,” Barea said. “At this point in my career, you have to work more on the body. They let me know what’s going on — like what you need to eat or what you need to stop eating. I want the feedback.”Four times a season, Orreco staff members come to Dallas to administer a full venous blood draw on Mavericks players. To supplement those visits, Dallas mixes in frequent capillary blood draws for its players in which a quick pinprick sample is taken to provide near-instant readings of oxidative stress levels in the blood from a player’s ear or index finger.League rules allow players to refuse any blood testing if they find the procedures too invasive, but the team says only one Maverick, whom they declined to identify, had done so.“It’s your health, so it’s your decision,” Smith said.The samples, according to the Orreco co-founder Dr. Brian Moore, enable the firm to analyze a player’s hematology and biochemistry by assessing nearly 50 biomarkers.This includes examining creatine kinase to assess muscle damage and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein to measure inflammation — two areas of particular concern for basketball players because of the nature of their on-court movements. Hydration and nutrition indicators — such as vitamin D levels, and iron and fatty acid profiles — are among the additional variables analyzed to determine where each player lands on a four-zone “readiness to perform” index.Along with the biomarker panels, Orreco’s algorithms also take into account game minutes, air miles traveled, sleep data and reaction times that are obtained from wearable devices used during practices.The rules that allow players to opt out of blood testing are in place because regulating how teams use biometrics and the data such research produces — specifically whether the data belongs to the teams, players or the league itself — remains an evolving point of concern throughout the N.B.A. As a safeguard amid the rise of wearable technology in practice sessions, league policy threatens fines of up to $250,000 per team for the misuse of biometric data.Yet Smith insists that the collaboration with Orreco has improved the Mavericks’ ability to track the onset of illness and keep players “more available” for games. In the 2016-17 season, according to data maintained by InStreetClothes.com, a website that tracks injuries in the N.B.A., Dallas players missed only four games due to illness — less than half the league average of 8.5.The Mavericks then lost a league-low zero games to illness last season, when the league average was 7.1 games per team, according to the site.“Does that mean we win more games?” Smith said. “Not necessarily. But it gives us a better shot.”Still, with the sports and fitness world littered with treatments not supported by vetted published studies, some independent experts have their doubts.Dr. Anthony Romeo, the chief of orthopedics at the Rothman Institute in New York and a former team physician for the Chicago White Sox who also worked with the Chicago Bulls, said he would maintain “a healthy level of skepticism” about Orreco’s work until it reveals more about the biomarkers it studies and the data being gathered.”I would be cautious and say it’s investigational,” Romeo said. “It’s a very interesting area of research and we applaud the efforts that they’re making. But at this time nothing supplants outstanding coaches and trainers that can do a visual analysis and understand their athletes from the traditional methods to know whether they’re training too hard or too little.”“At some point,” Romeo said of Orreco, “they’re going to have to share their data in a way that it can be repeated so that we know it’s true.”Said Dr. Robert Dimeff, a team physician for the Dallas Stars of the N.H.L. and a past president of the American Medical Society for Sports Medicine: “I think this is a research-based tool at this point in time, but I don’t think it’s ready for prime time. What they’re doing is something that in 10 years from now we may say, ‘Wow, this is absolutely great information.’“We can’t say that right now. But what they’re doing is trying to put some science behind recommendations and I think that’s very admirable.”Despite such skepticism, Cuban remains one of the biggest proponents of Orreco’s work. After watching an interview in which the openly data-hungry Cuban discussed his growing fascination with artificial intelligence, Moore wrote to Cuban before the 2016-17 season with a pitch that Orreco could “optimize performance, accelerate recovery and prolong careers” by using “high-end computing to find patterns in the data.”“Our job is to help the Mavericks make better decisions,” Moore said.Cuban was quickly sold.“Managing player load is as important as understanding traditional basketball analytics,’’ Cuban said. “Causation is always more valuable that correlation.”Although the Mavericks are hardly alone in embracing bioanalytics, they are on a very short list of top-level professional sports franchises that are willing to ignore the ultra-secretive norm and publicly acknowledge its work with Orreco.Aside from the Mavericks, only Newcastle United of the English Premier League has acknowledged being an Orreco customer. Through a person with knowledge of the contract, The Times confirmed that the Knicks are the other N.B.A. team to use Orreco as extensively as the Mavericks.Orreco also consults with a handful of individual players, including Wilson Chandler of the Philadelphia 76ers and Quincy Pondexter of the San Antonio Spurs.The company, though, said it could not discuss the Knicks, or the two Major League Baseball clubs and another Premier League soccer team it counts as clients.Smith cited Quest Diagnostics’ Blueprint Fit as another top practitioner in the field that he suspects has an N.B.A. clientele and acknowledged that several of his peers within the league are aware of what Dallas is doing, and asking lots of questions.“And I think there will be more,” Smith said.Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherConsider Capitals fans. Presented with an N.H.L. expansion franchise in 1974, they looked forward to building a successful team and perhaps someday winning a championship. It hasn’t worked out that way.Oh, the Washington Capitals have had some good teams over the years. There have been 11 division titles and 10 100-point seasons. In recent years, they have been even better: Three times in the last decade the team has had the best record in hockey, and Alex Ovechkin has won three Most Valuable Player Awards in that time.But somehow it always goes sour in the playoffs. The Capitals have made just one Stanley Cup final in their 44 years of existence. (They were swept by the Red Wings in 1998.) Worse, they have made a conference final only one other time. (They were swept by the Bruins in 1990.)That leaves a lot of early exits for a lot of good teams: 14 in the first round and 11 in the second.“Oh, yeah, they’ll win the Stanley Cup someday,” Renee Caldarelli, a season-ticket holder from Manassas, Va., said last year. “When I’m dead and buried.”How Capitals fans must look on with envy at the nascent hockey fans of Las Vegas. Quite simply, the Vegas Golden Knights are the most successful expansion team ever, in any major North American sport.Defying the history of new teams struggling, Vegas wound up with the fifth-best record in all of hockey this past regular season. Fivethirtyeight.com crunched the numbers and found Vegas’s season far outshone such expansion successes as the 1961 Los Angeles Angels, the 1967 Chicago Bulls, the 1995 Carolina Panthers and the 1994 Florida Panthers.And there has been no playoff swoon. On Tuesday, the Golden Knights completed a four-game sweep of the Los Angeles Kings, winning every game by a single goal and holding the Kings to three goals in the entire series.“When you think back to early October when the season started, we were thinking about competing and playing hard and seeing what we could do,” Coach Gerard Gallant told The Las Vegas Review-Journal. “Now all of a sudden, we’re moving on to the second round of the playoffs.”Earlier Tuesday night, the Capitals were also involved in a playoff game, against the Columbus Blue Jackets. The omens for this series finally seemed good for the Capitals: The Blue Jackets have not won a playoff series in their 18-year history.The Capitals had lost Games 1 and 2 of the series at home in overtime. Game 3 in Columbus on Tuesday went into overtime as well, then a second overtime. That unsettling feeling must have returned for many Caps fans.But lo and behold, it was Washington that scored the game winner, by Lars Eller after 89 minutes of hockey. Braden Holtby, returned from a benching, made 33 saves.“We got a break; it’s what we needed,” Capitals forward John Connolly told The Associated Press.The Caps are still down in the series, two games to one. But perhaps Tuesday’s game may be the start of a new day for the team: an end to the jinx and the first step toward a banner hoisted to the rafters of the Capital One Arena. The more pessimistic Capitals fan — is there any other kind? — is probably expecting another false dawn.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinWant Marc Stein’s N.B.A. insights sent directly to your inbox? Sign up here for our weekly N.B.A. newsletter.——-Every delicious curiosity the N.B.A. can conceivably dish at the start of the season is being swallowed up by one nagging question: When will the Minnesota Timberwolves trade Jimmy Butler?Answer: Not until the Minnesota owner Glen Taylor finds the gumption to override his own legendary indecisiveness and go through with a deal when a perfectly good one presents itself.I reported last Wednesday that the Wolves and the Miami Heat had progressed to an advanced stage of negotiations before the talks were derailed when Minnesota tried to tweak the trade construction. On Sunday morning, ESPN reported that it happened again — after the parties got so deep into trade discussions that the teams had exchanged medical information for the players involved.That the talks collapsed twice in such a short span should be surprising to no one who has followed the Wolves during Taylor’s quarter-century of ownership. This is the same owner who held on to Kevin Garnett as a player and to Kevin McHale as a general manager for too long; who allowed himself to be talked into hiring the ill-prepared David Kahn as McHale’s replacement; who could have escaped his Butler nightmare by accepting a package from Miami that would have been headlined by the promising swingman Josh Richardson and a protected first-round pick.Minnesota really can’t hope to do better under these circumstances, which stem from Butler’s declaration just days before training camp that he would not be re-signing with the Wolves in July as a free agent.Yet Taylor balked. Then balked again.Then you remember that this is how the Wolves have consistently operated under Taylor, and it snuffs out the initial pangs of compassion one might have felt for the Wolves’ quandary. He’s a very nice man, by all accounts, who hasn’t been afraid to spend over the years and certainly cares deeply about the franchise as a native Minnesotan. But to run a successful N.B.A. team, hard decisions have to be made — sometimes quickly. Sadly for the Wolves’ long-suffering fans, who just watched Butler’s arrival spark Minnesota to its first playoff berth in 14 seasons, hard decisions seem to freeze Taylor.A common refrain in N.B.A. circles these days holds that it’s the Wolves’ coach and team president, Tom Thibodeau, who is slow-playing or outright sabotaging trade talks because he can’t bear to surrender his former Chicago Bulls cornerstone. Even though Butler can walk away from the Wolves without compensation for the team if he is not dealt before the Feb. 7 trade deadline, it is believed that Thibodeau would welcome Butler back to the team unconditionally — no matter how uncomfortable that may make things for Karl-Anthony Towns and Andrew Wiggins.Towns and Wiggins, of course, are the two young Minnesota cornerstones whose chilly relationships with Butler are said to be a key reason Butler wants to leave — and who were among the targets during Butler’s reportedly heated return to the practice floor Wednesday.Thibodeau and his general manager, Scott Layden, will also ultimately have to answer for their inability to probe harder and sooner for the depths of Butler’s discontent, even if you wish to believe Thibodeau’s claims that the Wolves were legitimately unaware of how badly he wanted out until his Sept. 18 trade request.The reality, though, is that none of that could have happened if Taylor didn’t allow it to happen.If Thibodeau has indeed been putting his own interests ahead of the club’s, and if he and Layden weren’t as proactive as they should have been in assessing Butler’s long-term desires, it’s still on the owner for letting his top basketball decision makers operate in that manner. Blame Butler all you want for what was widely painted as an 11th-hour trade demand, but Taylor should have pressed his front office to make these determinations much earlier in the off-season.Also: How can the Wolves claim to have not known of the creative tension between their two best players? Or that they may have a deeper disconnect to address after Towns was offered a five-year, $190 million contract extension in July but chose not to actually sign it until Butler’s trade request had been made public? Whispers about the Butler-Towns dynamic and Butler’s uncertain future in Minnesota have been going around the league all summer.Numerous teams have complained in recent days that Thibodeau and Layden are acting like two men who really don’t want to make a deal. But that hasn’t stopped the Heat from engaging in numerous rounds of talks with the Wolves and presenting them with what appears to be a pretty palatable offer given Minnesota’s lack of leverage.Miami, Brooklyn and the Los Angeles Clippers are the teams known to interest Butler most in the long term. The fact that one of those three is willing to furnish a young player as highly rated as Richardson, along with a potential first-round pick, would enable the Wolves to recoup a good bit of what they gave up (Zach LaVine, Kris Dunn and the draft pick that became Lauri Markkanen) to acquire Butler.Yet it apparently wasn’t enough for Taylor, who now risks alienating Miami to the point that the Heat czar Pat Riley pushes away from the table. I can’t understand how even Taylor doesn’t see it after all these years of gaffes — Kahn’s selection of Jonny Flynn over Stephen Curry with the sixth pick of the 2009 draft is merely the most egregious.It should be very clear to Minnesota by now that this is not 2010 all over again: The Wolves can’t just bring Butler back the way the Denver Nuggets did with Carmelo Anthony eight years ago, when the Nuggets engaged the Nets in some serious Melo trade talks on the eve of camp but didn’t end up dealing him to the Knicks until February. The Nuggets’ locker room dynamic back then wasn’t nearly as combustible as Minnesota’s is now. As lifeless and distracted as the Wolves have looked during the exhibition season, followed by Wednesday’s tense practice-floor scenes reported by ESPN and Yahoo, can you imagine Butler, Towns and Wiggins trying to coexist long enough for Taylor to find a trade he’s willing to approve?Toronto, Houston, Boston, San Antonio, Philadelphia and, of course, LeBron James’s Los Angeles Lakers — there are so many teams, for so many intriguing reasons, we should be obsessing over as opening night draws near. There’s also the small matter of the Golden State Warriors preparing to work in the mercurial DeMarcus Cousins as they chase a fourth championship in five seasons.But before we can dive into that buffet of hoops mystery, we find ourselves waiting on action from Taylor and the Timberwolves yet again. Sympathy for their plight would be easier to muster if we hadn’t seen it all before.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew FuttermanST. PETERSBURG, Russia — The World Cup attracts all kinds, even a scion of one of the most famous families in American football.Clark Hunt, an owner and the chief executive of the N.F.L.’s Kansas City Chiefs, has missed just one World Cup since 1974. That was in 1978. The World Cup was in Argentina that year, and businessmen were being kidnapped in that part of the world, so his father, Lamar, decided to take a pass. Clark Hunt has been at every World Cup since then, and there he was having a shrimp salad with his family at the Peter and Paul Fortress on the Neva River here on Tuesday.They were heading to the Nigeria-Argentina match later that day. They caught Brazil-Costa Rica the other day, as well as a game in Moscow earlier in the tournament.“This one is up there,” Hunt, 53, said when asked how this tournament compared with the other 10 he has been at, a run that began when his father began taking him when he was in grade school. In American soccer terms, that classifies the Hunts, of Dallas, as early adopters.As Hunt tells it, his father did not have an innate affinity for the sport, but caught the bug anyway after seeing England win the World Cup in London in 1966.“My dad was all about spectacle and the fan experience, and there isn’t anything that produces that like a World Cup,” Hunt said, his wife, Tavia, and their soccer-playing children seated nearby.The New York Times has reporters, photographers and graphics editors on the ground in Russia for the World Cup. Sign up here to receive direct messages from them.By the late 1960s, Lamar Hunt had helped create the Chiefs and the American Football League, which was in the process of forcing a merger with the N.F.L., and there was not a sport that he did not want to invest in. He became a founding investor of the Chicago Bulls, started a professional tennis tour, then went deep on soccer with the Dallas Tornado of what would become the North American Soccer League, the United States’ first major attempt at professional soccer. The Tornado was full of Britons, who coached children in the Dallas area’s fledgling youth leagues in the off-season. That is how Clark Hunt got his first exposure to the sport.Clark Hunt went to Southern Methodist University to play football (the American kind). He said it took less than a week of preseason camp to realize he was not going to see much of the field. He essentially walked down the hallway to the soccer coach’s office and asked if he could try out, which says something about where soccer was back then. He played four years.In business, being early and being wrong are often the same thing. By the time Clark Hunt graduated, the N.A.S.L. had folded, not that he was good enough to play professionally. There just were not enough fans then, but the game would rise.In the early 1990s, when soccer boosters in America were trying to raise money for a new professional league, they went to see Lamar Hunt. Every one of his advisers told him to pass, Clark Hunt said, since he had already lost millions on the sport.Lamar Hunt invested anyway. He lost millions more during the next decade as he helped save Major League Soccer from collapse, and he also helped bring World Cup games to Dallas in 1994 and build the country’s first soccer-specific stadium — in Columbus, Ohio, in 1999. His family built another one outside Dallas, in Frisco, Tex., for its team, F.C. Dallas. Along the way, Lamar Hunt attended every World Cup he could until his death, a tradition his son has now carried on.These days, soccer holds a pretty high spot in the pecking order of Clark Hunt’s family. F.C. Dallas has about 6,000 players enrolled in its youth programs. For the coming school year, Clark Hunt’s son, Knobel, a rising high school sophomore, has decided to take a pass on football to focus on club and high school soccer and homework, and maybe run track in the spring. It was a time issue thing. Something had to go.Clark Hunt is understandably fired up for the World Cup to return to the United States in 2026. He is a chairman of the group that is trying to get games at Arrowhead Stadium in Kansas City, Mo. The massive parking lot has one of the great tailgate scenes in the N.F.L. on football Sundays. He can only imagine what it might be like before a World Cup game. It is hardly a lock, but he does not have a ton of competition in the middle of the country — Dallas is likely to get games, and probably Houston. Kansas City will probably have to beat out Nashville and Cincinnati.That is something to deal with when he gets back home, along with things like N.F.L. anthem controversies and getting the Chiefs back in the playoffs and keeping F.C. Dallas in the playoff hunt. Here, there were other matters to attend to. There was an afternoon of sightseeing ahead, and then the family would head to St. Petersburg stadium, where they would watch Lionel Messi rescue Argentina. In four years, Clark Hunt will probably be doing it all over again.OpinionKanishk TharoorAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyThe N.B.A.’s emblematic player is the Golden State Warriors’ Stephen Curry, the two-time most valuable player and three-time champion. Curry’s nimble cuts, circuslike dribbling and otherworldly shooting from his modest 6-foot 3-inch frame exemplify the game’s small-ball revolution.But size ruled this year’s draft. The steady stream of tall big men taken with many of the top picks — including five of the first seven — on Thursday at Brooklyn’s Barclays Center confirmed there is still a premium on athletes who use sheer length to score, rebound and intimidate.A closer look at these players’ skills, though, reveals a new prototype for big men, who must be able to move and shoot like guards (if not quite like Curry).The Phoenix Suns took the Bahamian 7-foot-1 center Deandre Ayton with the top pick. He was followed by Marcus Bagley III (6-11) to the Sacramento Kings; Luka Doncic to the Atlanta Hawks; Jaren Jackson Jr. (6-11) to the Memphis Grizzlies; and Trae Young to the Dallas Mavericks.Before the third pick was announced, the Hawks and Mavericks swapped picks, with Atlanta also receiving a future first-round pick from Dallas. Doncic will play with Dirk Nowitzki in Dallas and Young, the sweet-shooting former Oklahoma Sooner, will head to Atlanta.Some see Doncic as the top prospect of the class. The 19-year-old Slovene did not play in college, but was a significant contributor this season for the Spanish team Real Madrid, and last season became the youngest recipient of the EuroLeague Most Valuable Player Award.But there is no denying Ayton’s promise. Like several other big men drafted near the top — including the 7-foot Mohamed Bamba, who went to the Orlando Magic at No. 6 — Ayton is unusually mobile and is developing an outside shot. His athleticism will be critical on defense, where he will be expected to switch onto ball-handling guards in pick-and-rolls, and his outside shot will be vital on offense, where it will help him stretch the floor.Rounding out the top 10 were Wendell Carter Jr., yet another big man, to the Chicago Bulls at No. 7; Collin Sexton to the Cleveland Cavaliers; Kevin Knox, a 6-foot-9 forward who spent one year at Kentucky, to the Knicks; and Mikal Bridges to the Philadelphia 76ers with the 10th pick.After the selection, the Sixers traded Bridges to the Suns in exchange for the No. 16 pick, Zhaire Smith, as well as a future first-round pick. Many on social media reacted with surprise and sadness: Bridges’s mother works in human resources for the Sixers, and Bridges gave an enthusiastic news conference about playing for the Sixers before hearing word of the deal.The night’s biggest surprise may have been Michael Porter Jr. A year ago, many prognosticators had pegged the 6-10 forward for the top pick. But a back injury in his first game as a freshman at Missouri severely limited Porter. He played only in that game and the final two of the season. As a result of the limited playing time and concern over his medical future, he dropped to No. 14, where he was selected by the Denver Nuggets.Ayton became the first No. 1 pick to be drafted by a team in his college’s state since the Houston Rockets selected the University of Houston’s Hakeem Olajuwon in 1984, according to ESPN Stats & Info. (Perhaps an allowance should be made for the Cavaliers’ No. 1 pick in 2003, LeBron James, the native of Akron, Ohio, who has said he would have attended Ohio State if he had played in college.)Bagley’s selection meant that a Duke alumnus had been selected in the top three in each of the past five drafts. All played just one year in college. Duke, which won its fifth title in 2015, has surpassed Kentucky as the paradigmatic team of the one-and-done era — an era whose end is likely on the horizon after a recruiting scandal prompted the N.C.A.A. to urge the N.B.A. and the N.B.A. players’ union to end the rule that requires draftees to be a year removed from high school. (Carter, the Bulls’ pick at No. 7, was also a Duke freshman.)Sexton’s selection constituted the first time an Alabama player was drafted in the first round since Gerald Wallace was selected No. 25 by the Sacramento Kings in 2001.Other notable first-round picks included Donte DiVincenzo — who raised his stock in the N.C.A.A. title game by leading Villanova to victory — going at No. 17 to the Milwaukee Bucks; Grayson Allen, fresh off his stint as Duke’s resident villain for the past several seasons, going at No. 18 to the Utah Jazz; the former Michigan big man Moritz Wagner being picked at No. 25 by the Los Angeles Lakers; and at No. 27, in perhaps the steal of the draft, the ferocious Texas A&M big man Robert Williams III was taken by the Boston Celtics.Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — They were just five players among the many who arrived for the N.B.A.’s “rookie transition program” in 2003, with no way of knowing they would have such successful careers or outlast their peers.Zaza Pachulia, a center from Georgia who had been drafted by the Orlando Magic, was just getting to know the others — LeBron James, Dwyane Wade, Kyle Korver and Carmelo Anthony — a little bit, at least. They were weeks from entering the league together, along with about 40 other young men. But before then, they had to acquire some life skills, courtesy of the N.B.A. program.Like how to write personal checks.“It was shocking to me how many new things I learned there,” Pachulia said in a recent interview.Those five players would emerge as key members of one of the most celebrated draft classes in league history — a class that would produce nine All-Stars — and they are the only five who remain from a fraternity that has thinned with each passing season.“There’s a bit of pride, especially as the years go on, that, ‘Hey, we’re still doing this thing,’ ” said Korver, a 37-year-old forward with the Utah Jazz.The spotlight simultaneously encompassed two of them recently when Wade, who has announced that he will retire at the end of the season, made the trip to Los Angeles with the Miami Heat to face James and the Lakers at Staples Center. Barring an unlikely matchup in the finals — the Heat are struggling — the Lakers’ win was the final meeting between James, a four-time most valuable player, and Wade, a 12-time All-Star.Their legacies are intertwined, of course: As Heat teammates, they won two titles with a third star, Chris Bosh, who was the fourth pick in the same draft. (Bosh, who has said that he hopes to make a return, has not played since 2016 because of a lung ailment.)“The N.B.A. was in a good place when we came in, but it wasn’t in a great place,” Wade said. “So I think we gave the league a little bit of a jolt.”The 2003 draft, which took place just months after Michael Jordan played his final game, was extraordinary. James, the No. 1 pick, went to the Cleveland Cavaliers, while Darko Milicic, one of the great busts of all time, went second to the Detroit Pistons. Anthony was picked third by the Denver Nuggets, and Wade fifth by the Heat.Though Pachulia and Korver slipped to the second round, they have had high-level careers, and they share a unique bond with the other players from their class who continue to plug along — for now, if not forever.“I have so much respect for those guys,” Pachulia said. “I’m not as close to what they’ve done with the numbers or the stats. But as far as love of the game, I’m sure I can still definitely compete. There’s a reason why I’m still here.”Back when it all began, Wade heard James before he actually met him. It was the spring of 2003, and Wade was waiting to be examined by doctors in a small room at the N.B.A. pre-draft camp in Chicago. Everyone knew about James, who had been a high school phenom. But Wade, who was coming off two seasons at Marquette, was still curious about him.“So I’m just in this room by myself, and in comes this loud kid with a bunch of people following him — and he’s loud,” Wade, 36, recalled in an interview. “So we eventually introduced ourselves, and then it was just me and him in there waiting, you know? Getting to know each other a little bit.”Wade said he could sense an instant connection, though their conversation was cut short when James was summoned for his exam first, leaving Wade to wait even longer. It was an indication, perhaps, of James’s precocious grip on the league.Pachulia, who had been playing in Turkey, arrived for the draft at Madison Square Garden in a new suit. He did not receive an invitation to sit in the “green room,” which is typically reserved for lottery picks, so he sat in the bleachers. But he was still expecting to go in the first round after his agent had advised against his entering the 2002 draft.“Just wait another year,” Pachulia recalled his agent telling him. “It’ll be an easier draft in 2003.”Now, as he settled in for a night that would surely change his life, Pachulia watched as the draft played out. The names kept coming: Chris Kaman, Kirk Hinrich, Nick Collison, David West. And coming: Boris Diaw, Kendrick Perkins, Leandro Barbosa, Josh Howard. And coming, deep into the second round: Luke Walton, Steve Blake, Willie Green.Pachulia came to the realization that it was not, in fact, an easier draft.When Orlando finally made him the 42nd pick, Pachulia was greeted by Adam Silver, then the deputy commissioner. Silver asked Pachulia if he was excited about visiting Disney World. Pachulia forced himself to smile.“I thought not getting picked in the first round was the end of the world,” he says now.All these years later, as he contributes for the Pistons in his 16th N.B.A. season, Pachulia, 34, knows better. He has made a career out of being a fierce competitor — “He will mess you up,” Wade said, using a more colorful verb — and a consummate professional, winning two championships with the Golden State Warriors.“There’s just not a better teammate than Zaza,” said Korver, who played with Pachulia for a season in Atlanta.Korver’s draft night experience was similarly precarious — and so were his workouts before the draft. He recalled getting filleted by elite prospects like Wade.“Teams kept putting me against the best athletes available to see if I could guard them,” Korver said. “By the end, my confidence was just — I don’t know, man.”Korver watched the draft on television with friends in his dorm room at Creighton. A crew from a local television station also showed up. The night dragged on as players like Matt Bonner (No. 45 to the Chicago Bulls) and Mo Williams (No. 47 to the Jazz) were selected in the second round.“I think everyone was like, ‘What do we do if he doesn’t get picked?’ ” Korver recalled.He eventually went 51st to the New Jersey Nets during a commercial break, which meant that he only got the news when the broadcast resumed and he saw his name crawl across the bottom of the screen. But even the pick itself was a misdirection. The Nets sold his rights to the Philadelphia 76ers, who were led by Allen Iverson.“It ended up being a beautiful thing for me,” Korver said.Iverson’s ability to draw multiple defenders often created space for Korver on the perimeter, and he emerged as one of the best long-range technicians of his generation.“The longer I’ve been in the league, the more I realize it’s not so much what number you get picked at but the situation you get drafted into,” Korver said. “Are you a good fit? Do get you that chance? I always tell guys, ‘You have to get that chance, and you have to take advantage of it. Once you do, be on time, work hard, be a good person and don’t do drugs. If you do those things, you can play for a while in this league.’ ”Most players’ skills decline after 16 seasons, and often years before. Wade, for example, is on his way out, and contenders have not lined up to acquire Anthony from the Houston Rockets after his failed 10-game experiment with them. James, who will turn 34 this month, remains the outlier, a basketball cyborg who is somehow maximizing his physical gifts in N.B.A. middle age.While it is easy to dismiss James as a genetic freak — “And he is,” said Korver, who played with James in Cleveland — few players are more regimented: all the daily stretching and weight lifting and core work, along with the single-minded focus on diet.“His diligence with those things is amazing,” Korver said, “and he’s done them every day for a really long time.”James was not always so committed. He recalled how he could roll out of his bed in his early 20s and play without stretching or warming up. But he has figured out how to ward off the corrosive effects of his profession.“I can’t afford to take a day off when I’m not doing something with my body,” James told reporters recently.He is a marvel to his peers, including Pachulia, who — like so many others — has read reports about how much James invests in his body every year.“Like, over a million dollars? It pays off, you know?” Pachulia said. “I’ve got to be honest: I don’t spend that much on myself.”But Pachulia is no less committed to the game, and he says he still has a passion for the work.“I keep it very simple, because there’s no secret: It’s love,” Pachulia said. “If you don’t love something, it’s impossible to be in this situation for such a long time.”One of Pachulia’s more enjoyable rituals is sipping a double espresso before every game. Before he appeared in his 1,000th game, he did the math.“I thought, ‘Wow, that’s a lot of coffee,’ ” said Pachulia, who has now played in more than 1,100 games, including the playoffs. “We have another game coming up, and I’m telling you: I can’t wait. I can’t wait to push the button and for the espresso to come out.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin Hoffman and Victor MatherThe Phoenix Suns are now on the clock for the first pick in the 2018 N.B.A. draft after winning the league’s annual draft lottery, and have a tough call in choosing among Arizona’s Deandre Ayton, Duke’s Marvin Bagley and the international star Luka Doncic.The Suns came into the event with the best chance of acquiring the No. 1 pick (25 percent) and then waited things out as the Sacramento Kings and the Atlanta Hawks both snuck into the top three slots. Phoenix will look to add another star to fit with Devin Booker, T.J. Warren and Josh Jackson (Jackson, last year’s No. 4 pick, was present on Tuesday to represent the team), while the Kings and Hawks will both continue rebuilding projects with a much loftier pick than they had likely planned for.Watch the lottery drawing of the 2018 #NBADraftLottery in Chicago. https://t.co/JBV5XrRrAgThere was little drama to the event, with the Philadelphia 76ers and the Boston Celtics finding out almost immediately which of those two teams would receive the Los Angeles Lakers’ pick — it went, at No. 10, to the 76ers. And the Los Angeles Clippers held onto both of their picks.While the Suns, Kings and Hawks are the obvious winners of the event, the losers are the Memphis Grizzlies and the Dallas Mavericks. Both teams were awful last season, with the Grizzlies playing lineups of questionable N.B.A. players and the Mavericks having their owner, Mark Cuban, receive a $600,000 fine for openly admitting that they were not attempting to win. While the teams did not exactly tumble in the picking order, they had the second- and third-best odds to receive the No. 1 pick, and ended up in the No. 4 (Memphis) and No. 5 (Dallas) positions in the draft.The draft will take place on June 21 at Barclays Center in Brooklyn.The Phoenix Suns won the draft lottery, attaining the No. 1 pick, which was at least somewhat expected considering their 25 percent chance of picking first. The other two top-three picks were fairly high upsets. The Sacramento Kings had just an 18.3 percent chance of being a top-3 pick and the Atlanta Hawks had just a 42.4 percent chance of being top-3.1. Phoenix Suns2. Sacramento Kings3. Atlanta HawksNick Gilbert’s magic appears to have run out for Cleveland and there was no magic for Scott Perry and the Knicks, but the Atlanta Hawks and the Sacramento Kings jumped into the top 3 along with the Phoenix Suns after the Memphis Grizzlies and the Dallas Mavericks fell in the lottery. As both of those teams were openly tanking this season, it is unlikely either franchise will garner much sympathy.4. Memphis Grizzlies5. Dallas Mavericks6. Orlando Magic7. Chicago Bulls8. Cleveland Cavaliers9. New York KnicksThere were no surprises in picks 10 to 14, with them all going in the order of finish. The Philadelphia 76ers kept the Lakers’ pick (if it had been No. 2 or No. 3 the Celtics would have gotten it) and the teams in the bottom nine positions will get the first nine picks in the draft.10. Philadelphia 76ers11. Charlotte Hornets12. Los Angeles Clippers13. Los Angeles Clippers14. Denver NuggetsBy far the strangest aspect of the setup at this year’s lottery is the shared desk between Elton Brand, who is representing the Philadelphia 76ers, and Rich Gotham, who is representing the Boston Celtics. The teams both have a shot of owning the Los Angeles Lakers’ pick, which means one of them will leave the stage tonight empty-handed. The 76ers will get it if the pick is No. 1 or if it falls to picks 10-13. The Celtics will get it if it is No. 2 or 3.Unlike last year, when Magic Johnson and Joel Embiid added some serious entertainment to the event with a playful exchange of over-the-top reactions, this year’s crowd of team representatives at the draft lottery is a little less camera-friendly. Nick Gilbert, who has been a good-luck charm for Cleveland in the past, is there, as is the actress Jami Gertz in her role as owner of the Atlanta Hawks, but it is not seeming likely that Sacramento’s De’Aaron Fox or Phoenix’s Josh Jackson is likely to replicate the antics of Embiid, and the executives in attendance like Charlotte’s Mitch Kupchak and Chicago’s Michael Reinsdorf do not seem likely to fill Johnson’s shoes.In an interview broadcast on ESPN before the lottery, Adam Silver acknowledged that teams are feeling heat from fans to tank rather than win if they aren’t a true contender, but he is hoping the league has sufficiently addressed the issue with rule changes that go into effect next year. As for this year, the rules have yet to go into effect, and a team that openly tanked like Memphis has the second-best chance at the No. 1 pick and a team that actually admitted to tanking like Dallas has the third-best chance.Who’s in? The 14 teams that did not make the playoffs are normally eligible. But one of those teams, the Brooklyn Nets, traded its pick away to the Cleveland Cavaliers. Another, the Los Angeles Lakers, will send its pick to either the Philadelphia 76ers or the Boston Celtics.How does it work? A random, weighted draw will be held to determine the top three draft picks. Picks 4 to 14 will then be allotted in reverse order of the teams’ records.Who are the team representatives? Teams can send whoever they like to represent them at the lottery: a player, an executive, somebody’s relative. This year’s choices:Four are players. De’Aaron Fox of the Kings, Jamal Murray of the Nuggets, Luke Kennard of the Pistons and Josh Jackson of the Suns.Other teams will be represented by executives; the Clippers will be represented by special consultant (and Lakers legend) Jerry West.The Hawks will be represented by Jami Gertz.Jami Gertz? The star of ’80s movies like “The Lost Boys” and “Less Than Zero”? Yes, she is an owner of the Hawks and married to the principal owner, Tony Ressler.Who has the best chance at the No. 1 pick? The Phoenix Suns, who at 21-61 had the league’s worst record. Their chance is 25 percent.Who else has a good chance at No. 1? The next most likely teams are the Memphis Grizzlies (20 percent), the Dallas Mavericks (14 percent) and the Atlanta Hawks (14 percent).Who does not have such a good chance? The Orlando Magic at 9 percent, the Chicago Bulls and Sacramento Kings (5 percent), the Cavaliers (3 percent), the Knicks (2 percent) and the 76ers, Charlotte Hornets, Detroit Pistons, Los Angeles Clippers and Denver Nuggets (1 percent each).What’s going on with that Lakers’ pick? Because of a trade with the Suns back in 2012 that brought them Steve Nash, the Lakers no longer have their No. 1 pick. The Suns eventually sent the pick to the Sixers, who used it as part of a trade with the Celtics last year. But many of the deals involved conditions. As a result of all these complex machinations, if the pick winds up in the 1 spot, or between 10 and 13, the 76ers will get it (a 97 percent chance). In the less likely event that it winds up at 2 or 3, the Celtics will get it. (It can’t land in any other positions; if the Lakers are not pulled for a top three lottery place, their record was strong enough that they will get a lower pick.)What is the single most likely result? That the Nuggets wind up with the 14th pick. They have a 98.2 percent chance of doing so.What about picks 15-30? Those are all set, starting with the playoff team with the worst record, the Wizards, at 15, and moving down pick by pick to the better teamsIsn’t the N.B.A. planning some changes to the lottery? Yes, but they don’t begin until next year. In short, the chance of getting a top pick will be spread out a little more, giving the worst team only a 14 percent chance of winning (down from 25) and giving stronger teams a bit more of a chance. The 14 non-playoff teams will remain the only ones in the lottery.Is what I see on TV the actual lottery? Not really. What you see is more of a ceremonial unveiling of the draft order. The actual lottery is held just before in front of a handful of league, team and news media witnesses sequestered in another room. In 2015, The Times was there to witness the curious process.Is it fixed? As with many big events, conspiracy theorists come out for the draft lottery. Most often, they claim the league fixes the draw to benefit teams in big markets. When the Knicks won the lottery in 1985, the suggestion was made that the envelope with their name was bent or even refrigerated to tip off then-Commissioner David Stern. There has never been any credible evidence that a draft lottery has indeed been fixed.When and where is the actual draft? June 21 at Barclays Center in Brooklyn.Who will be picked? The top pick may come down to a choice between Arizona freshman center Deandre Ayton and Luka Doncic, a swingman from Slovenia. Among the players who could follow are freshmen Jaren Jackson of Michigan State, Marvin Bagley of Duke, Michael Porter of Missouri, Trae Young of Oklahoma and Mohamed Bamba of Texas.Any upperclassmen? Mikal Bridges of national champion Villanova, a junior, may go 7-9ish.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaOAKLAND, Calif. — Alfonzo McKinnie was not exactly getting rich playing basketball for Rayos de Hermosillo in Mexico’s top league, but his contract did include one perk: 40 percent off wings at a sports bar not far from the arena. So McKinnie would plant himself in front of a big-screen TV with a plate of wings, and watch the Golden State Warriors compete in the N.B.A. playoffs without him, which was understandable since the Warriors had never heard of him.It was the spring of 2016, and the glamour of big-time basketball felt very far away.“I watched every game,” McKinnie said. “I probably ate everything off that menu.”At the time, McKinnie was fresh off an eight-month stretch playing for one of the worst teams in Luxembourg’s second division — Luxembourg’s second division! — so Mexico was a step up. For an unsung forward with a surgically repaired knee who was determined to sustain his dream of reaching the N.B.A., at least he was back on the same continent.“I would keep telling myself, ‘Yo, I have to get under the bright lights,’ ” McKinnie said. “I just felt like that was where I wanted to be in life, and that was where I belonged.”McKinnie was reflecting on his absurd journey after a recent practice with the Warriors, who now employ him as a 6-foot-8 wing. He has, thanks to the power of positive thinking and a heap of determination, finally proved that he belongs — and not just in the N.B.A., but with the most feared team in the league. He also recognizes the growing appeal of his story.“I mean, I’ve been pretty excited about it, too,” he said, “so I can’t really blame people.”The Warriors, who were already good at basketball, having won back-to-back championships, managed to upgrade their roster over the off-season, most notably by signing DeMarcus Cousins, a perennial All-Star. But Cousins is still recovering from an injury, and no newcomer has had a greater impact than McKinnie, 26, who won one of the final roster spots at training camp and then bought his mother a house.“I’ve been telling her to find one she wants at a reasonable price,” he said. “She found one.”McKinnie’s breakthrough came last week against the Chicago Bulls, when he collected 19 points and 10 rebounds in a lopsided win. If he was overshadowed by Klay Thompson, who set an N.B.A. record with 14 3-pointers, McKinnie was still thrilled to be draining shots of his own in front of family, friends and Scottie Pippen, the Hall of Fame forward.“Scottie told me to chill,” McKinnie said.The game was no fluke. McKinnie has shown that he can be a force off the bench. On Friday night, in a tightly contested game against the Minnesota Timberwolves, he crammed a dunk, a defensive rebound and a 3-pointer into a 55-second stretch of the fourth quarter to help seal another win.In his last five games, McKinnie is averaging 11 points and 6 rebounds while shooting 61.1 percent from the field and 64.3 percent from 3-point range. The Warriors are 10-1, and the secret is out.“He’s been a huge surprise for us this year,” Coach Steve Kerr said. “He’s really come in and seized the opportunity that was there for him.”McKinnie knows he is not really supposed to be here, sharing a locker room with the likes of Stephen Curry, who described him as a “huge catalyst,” and Draymond Green, who called him “hungry.” McKinnie has been hearing the same question a lot lately, and it goes something like this: How is this even possible?“For someone to have that type of journey, you must really love the game of basketball,” the assistant coach Chris DeMarco said.McKinnie was not a celebrated recruit coming out of high school in Chicago. He attended Eastern Illinois before transferring to Wisconsin-Green Bay, where his college career was hindered by a pair of surgeries on his right knee. As a senior during the 2014-15 season, he was a part-time starter who averaged 8 points and 5.3 rebounds a game.But McKinnie felt he had more to offer, so he landed in Luxembourg to play for a team called the East Side Pirates, who were abysmal. McKinnie had enough spectacular moments — mostly dunks — for a highlight reel that made its way onto YouTube, but he could not help but wonder about his future. He might as well have been playing on Pluto.“I had doubts,” he said.After the season, he returned to Chicago and got a phone call from a friend who was playing in Mexico.“His exact words were, ‘Don’t unpack your bags,’ ” McKinnie said.He proceeded to spend about two months with Hermosillo of Liga Nacional de Baloncesto Profesional. He liked Mexico — “Mexico was dope,” he said — although he recalled that one of the teams played on an outdoor court, with a sort of industrial canopy over the top of it.In any case, McKinnie was building confidence. He was playing well and beginning to realize that he could hold his own at a higher level, if only he could get a big break. Instead, he took a series of small steps, each building on the next, and he took advantage.After his stint in Mexico, he agreed to join a 3-on-3 circuit — but only because Randy Brown, an assistant coach with the Bulls, was running some of the workouts out of Chicago.“He was like, ‘Man, this would be a good opportunity for you to get some eyes on you,’ ” McKinnie recalled. “And I was like, ‘You know what? What do I have to lose?’ ”McKinnie wound up representing the United States at the 3-on-3 world championships in China, which helped enhance his visibility. Brown assured him that he would keep in touch.Sure enough, McKinnie was sleeping on his mother’s couch later that summer when his phone rang again. It was Brown, who asked McKinnie if he could race over to the Bulls’ practice facility to play pickup ball with some of the team’s players.“I didn’t even brush my teeth,” McKinnie said.He was beginning to make an impression on coaches and scouts — he could leap and rebound, and his jump shot was solid — but he said he still had to pay a fee to participate in an open tryout that season for the Windy City Bulls of the N.B.A. G League. He made the team and became a G League All-Star while averaging 14.9 points a game.McKinnie spent last season back in the G League, this time with Raptors 905, though he had brushes with the bright lights. He appeared in 14 games for the Toronto Raptors, playing a total of 53 minutes, which was enough for him to know he wanted more. He also said he learned a lot last season from Jerry Stackhouse, then the coach of Raptors 905, who taught him how to defend wings. For much of his career, McKinnie had operated as an undersize power forward.Another opportunity materialized late this summer, when the Warriors invited him to training camp. The consensus was that McKinnie would be vying for a two-way contract with the Warriors and their G League affiliate. But he had other ideas. As he put it, “I knew what needed to be done.”It helped his cause that Patrick McCaw was — and remains — involved in a contract dispute with the Warriors, freeing up an extra roster spot. But McKinnie earned it.“Alfonzo isn’t afraid of the moment,” DeMarco said. “That’s why his teammates love playing with him, and that’s why the coaching staff has confidence in him.”Last summer, after his second season in the G League, McKinnie returned to Chicago to host a daylong camp for children. Arthur Agee, who was one of the players featured in the award-winning documentary “Hoop Dreams,” was a guest speaker. McKinnie and Agee attended the same high school, about 20 years apart.McKinnie hopes to extend the camp to three days next summer, he said, and this time he has his own story to tell.Advertisement
