AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersVirginia guard Ty Jerome is entering the NBA draft one week after helping guide the Cavaliers to a national championship in Minneapolis.The 6-foot-5 junior announced his decision via Instagram."I came to Virginia to win a national championship and to be able to do that with my brothers is a dream come true," Jerome wrote. "I have had a basketball in my hand basically since the day I was born. My dream has always been to play in the NBA. Therefore, after speaking with my family and coaches and giving it a lot of thought, I know it's the right time to announce that I will be entering the NBA draft and signing with an agent."Jerome knows it's the right time because he's "as ready as I'm going to be," he said in a subsequent interview with Sports Illustrated.Jerome averaged 13.6 points, 5.5 assists and 4.2 rebounds per game last season. He was Virginia's primary ballhandler but was technically the starting 2-guard for the Cavaliers. He said he patterns his game after a combination of Steve Nash and Klay Thompson.The Cavaliers are bracing to lose Jerome and sophomore forward De'Andre Hunter from a team that lost only three games last season.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersKansas junior forward Dedric Lawson announced Monday that he is declaring for the NBA draft.The third-team All-American averaged 19.4 points and 10.3 rebounds this season, and his 22 double-doubles were third most in Jayhawks' history.Lawson announced his decision in a note on Twitter."After prayer and discussion with my family, I will pursue my life's dream by declaring for the NBA draft," he wrote. "I will begin my preparation for the NBA immediately. RockChalk JayHawk for Life!!"Jayhawks coach Bill Self indicated he was on board with Lawson's decision to enter the draft."Dedric informed me shortly after the season of his intentions to declare for the NBA Draft," Self said in a statement. "He had a chance to go home and visit with family about this and we totally support his decision and wish him nothing but the best moving forward. ..."He could not have represented our program, the university or his family any better than how he did. All Jayhawk fans should be excited for him."Lawson's brother, K.J., announced late last week that he will transfer from Kansas. K.J. Lawson, a swingman, averaged 3.1 points and 2.0 rebounds and will have two seasons remaining.Sophomore guard Charlie Moore also is transferring. He averaged 2.9 points and 1.3 assists this past season.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Milwaukee's Mike Budenholzer has won this season's coach of the year award, presented by the National Basketball Coaches Association.Budenholzer led the Bucks to a league-best 60-22 record this season, leading Milwaukee to its best season in nearly 40 years. Milwaukee was the only team in the league to rank in the top four in both offensive and defensive rating.Budenholzer was one of eight coaches to receive votes from NBA peers this season. The others were Brooklyn's Kenny Atkinson, Denver's Michael Malone, Indiana's Nate McMillan, San Antonio's Gregg Popovich, the Los Angeles Clippers' Doc Rivers, Utah's Quin Snyder and Portland's Terry Stotts.The NBCA award is voted on by the league's 30 head coaches. This is the third season where it was awarded; Mike D'Antoni and Erik Spoelstra shared the award in 2017 and Dwane Casey won it last season.The award is separate from the NBA's coach of the year award. That winner will be announced at the NBA Awards Show in Los Angeles on June 24.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersPurdue junior guard Carsen Edwards has decided to take his red-hot shooting stroke to the NBA, announcing Sunday on social media that he is hiring an agent and will enter this year's NBA draft in June.Edwards notched a pair of 42-point games in fueling the Boilermakers' run to the NCAA Tournament's Elite Eight, and his second of those outbursts came tantalizingly close to getting them into the Final Four. Instead, Virginia held on for an 80-75 win in overtime on March 30.In a Twitter post, Edwards handed out thank-yous all around, and then said, "For as long as I can remember, it has been a dream to play in the NBA. I feel that the time is now," adding that he is "ready for the next chapter in my life."Edwards led the Big Ten Conference in scoring, averaging 24.3 points, and he also tallied 3.6 rebounds and 2.9 assists per game this season. He was a consensus second-team All-America selection.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThere's no LeBron James in these playoffs, so the NBA Finals will have a distinctly new look for the first time in nine years.There's no Tony Parker, for the first time in nearly two decades.There's no Dwyane Wade, and he'll never play a playoff game again.San Antonio is in the postseason for a record-tying 22nd consecutive season. Brooklyn, Denver, Detroit, Orlando and the Los Angeles Clippers got into these playoffs after watching the postseason last year.As always at playoff time, there are some familiar things and some not-so-familiar things. With the postseason set to begin Saturday, here's 10 things to know going into the best time of the NBA year:DRIVE FOR FIVEGolden State is trying to reach the NBA Finals for the fifth consecutive season.If the Warriors get there, they would be the second franchise ever with such a streak — joining only the Boston Celtics, who went there in 10 straight seasons from 1957-66.The Warriors are one of five franchises with a streak of four straight NBA Finals trips: the Los Angeles Lakers did it from 1982-85, the Celtics also did it from 1984-87, the Miami Heat did it from 2011-14 and the Cleveland Cavaliers did it from 2015-18.Golden State is also seeking its seventh championship in franchise history. That would put the Warriors in sole possession of third place on the NBA's most-titles list, behind Boston (17) and the Lakers (16).The Warriors and Chicago are currently tied for third with six championships each.BLOWOUT BUCKSMilwaukee had 45 double-digit wins this season, the most in the NBA.That's a really good omen for the Bucks.Only four teams in NBA history have posted more double-digit wins in a regular season than the Bucks this year. Those clubs are the 1971-72 Los Angeles Lakers (50), the 2016-17 Golden State Warriors (48), the 1970-71 Bucks (47) and the 1995-96 Chicago Bulls (46).All four of those teams went on to win the NBA championship.MR. 3000?Houston's James Harden scored 2,818 points in the regular season, which puts him on the cusp of joining a very elite club.If Harden scores 182 in the playoffs, that will give him a total of 3,000 — and he would be the 10th player in NBA history to score that many in a full season, postseason included. The others: Michael Jordan (10 times), Wilt Chamberlain (five times), Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Rick Barry, Elgin Baylor, Kobe Bryant, Kevin Durant, Bob McAdoo and Shaquille O'Neal.Durant was the last to do it, in 2013-14.LeBron James almost got into the club last year, coming as close as humanly possible — he scored 2,999 points for Cleveland.WELCOME BACKKawhi Leonard's last postseason appearance ended earlier than planned, when he hurt his left ankle while taking a jumper over Golden State's Zaza Pachulia in Game 1 of the 2017 Western Conference finals. Pachulia closed out aggressively, Leonard didn't have space to land safely and he missed the rest of that series.When Leonard left the game, he and San Antonio were up by 23. The Spurs lost that lead, lost the game, lost the series and Leonard never played a postseason second with the Spurs again after that bad landing.Toronto is hoping that Leonard can rekindle his typical postseason magic in his playoff return.Leonard enters these playoffs with a 32-game streak of double-digit postseason outings, averaging 24.1 points in those contests.STEPH RISINGWarriors guard Stephen Curry is on pace to catch Ray Allen and become the NBA's all-time 3-point leader sometime in the 2020-21 season.That stat only takes regular-season games into account. In the postseason, Curry is about to become No. 1.Curry has 378 career postseason 3s, good for No. 2 on the NBA's all-time playoff list. Allen is No. 1, with 385.PLAYOFF CASHThe 16 playoff teams are playing for the Larry O'Brien Trophy, for rings, for a parade ... and for a stake of $21,676,510.That's the amount of this year's NBA Playoff Pool — a record.Every playoff team is assured of some of the pie, which is often used to fund bonuses for players and team staff.So far, all 16 teams are due at least $323,506 each. Most have already clinched much more because finishing in the top six spots in each conference also comes with a bonus. For example, Milwaukee — because it had the best record in the NBA — is already due $1,495,750.Teams get an additional $384,930 for winning a first-round series. Conference finalists get another $638,094. The losing team in the NBA Finals gets another $2,543,681 and the NBA champs get one more payout of $3,838,798.Add it all up, and the Bucks could get $6,355,572 if they win the title. No other team can win that much.HOUSTON, A PROBLEM?Houston is the No. 4 seed in the Western Conference, and faces No. 5 seed Utah in the first round.History suggests the Rockets are in trouble.In each of the last seven seasons, and nine of the last 10, the No. 5 team in the West has beaten the No. 4 team in the first round.Utah has won each of its last five appearances in a 4-versus-5 series. The fifth-seeded Jazz knocked off Oklahoma City in 2018, the Los Angeles Clippers in 2017 and Denver in 2010. The Jazz were seeded No. 4 when they won a 4-versus-5 series in 2007 and 2008 — both of those coming against Houston.BOOGIE'S DEBUTDeMarcus Cousins is No. 1 on a list that nobody wants to lead.By this weekend, he'll be off the list entirely.Cousins has played in 565 regular-season games and zero postseason games. That'll change this weekend when he and Golden State play host to the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 1 of a Western Conference first-round series.No active NBA player has been in more regular-season games without a playoff appearance than Cousins. When he plays for the Warriors this weekend, and when Kyle O'Quinn — currently No. 2 on the list with 443 regular-season games without a postseason minute — plays for Indiana, the new active leader in games played without a postseason appearance will be Brandon Knight.He's played in 421 and is still looking for his first playoff outing.MILESTONE COMINGSometime in the next couple of months, the 4,000th playoff game in NBA history will be played.There have been 3,934 postseason contests so far. Based on the way last season went, the milestone game will come late in the conference-semifinal round or early in the conference-final round.FINALS STARTThis season's NBA Finals start May 30. It'll be the earliest Game 1 of the title series since 1986, when Boston and Houston opened their series on May 26.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Longhorns freshman Jaxson Hayes has declared for the NBA draft and will hire an agent, the school announced Thursday."I have always dreamed about playing in the NBA. Now that I have the chance to realize that dream, I would like to pursue that opportunity," Hayes said in a statement.The 6-foot-11 forward averaged 10 points and 5.0 rebounds in his only season with the Longhorns. He started 21 of 32 games and shot 72.8 percent from the floor.The Big 12 Freshman of the Year is a potential lottery pick, according to several draft outlets. ESPN ranks him as the No. 9 prospect.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersNEW YORK — The NBA 2K League, a professional esports league for players of the basketball video game, said on Tuesday that YouTube will stream live broadcasts of all its games this season.The coverage includes the league's more than 230 regular-season, playoff and finals games. Games take place at the league's studio in the New York City borough of Queens.The agreement allows YouTube, a unit of Alphabet Inc, to broaden its already huge array of esports content.It comes at a time of exploding interest in esports, when professional video game players compete against each other, often for prize pools before thousands of fans watching online and in arenas.The NBA 2K League is "one of the very few leagues that we were not streaming on YouTube already," Ryan Wyatt, YouTube's global head of gaming, told Reuters.The platform already distributes content from more than two dozen other leagues. It said it has 200 million users who watch gaming content every day globally. In 2018, users watched more than 50 billion hours of gaming content.YouTube's overall gaming strategy is to bring scores of esports leagues and organizations onto its platform in non-exclusive distribution agreements.Wyatt wants to see esports "on as many platforms as possible, because it's an opportunity... for this space to continue to grow," he said. "We have no desire for exclusivity right now. We want to celebrate the category and grow it."The 21-team NBA 2K League's second season began April 2 and concludes in August. The NBA itself was the first professional sports league to partner with YouTube in 2005, when it launched its own channel.The NBA and YouTube would not disclose financial terms of the agreement. The deal does not currently have an end date because it is "more about just getting them ramped up on our platform," Wyatt said.Fans can also still continue to watch live NBA 2K games on Twitch, a unit of Amazon.com Inc, which previously had the exclusive rights to air the league's games. (Reporting by Hilary Russ; Editing by Cynthia Osterman)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — The last spot in the NBA playoffs went to the Detroit Pistons.Their reward: A series against MVP candidate Giannis Antetokounmpo and the Milwaukee Bucks.The drama of the regular season went all the way to the very end of the regular season, with seven of the eight first-round playoff matchups not being clinched until the final night was in the books — the last three of them, out West, going down to literally the final moments.The two-time defending champion Golden State Warriors will start their quest for a fourth title in five years against the Los Angeles Clippers."It's not going to be as easy as people think it is," Warriors star Kevin Durant said.That's the beauty of the playoffs. It's not supposed to be easy.First-round games in all eight series will be played starting Saturday and Sunday. The second round cannot begin until April 27 at the earliest, the conference finals couldn't start before May 12 and the NBA Finals will start on May 30.EASTERN CONFERENCEThe only matchup in the NBA that was set before Wednesday night was No. 4 Boston against No. 5 Indiana.Everything else, just like all the West matchups, fell into place during Game 82s on Wednesday.The Bucks, the NBA's top overall seed, play the Pistons. No. 2 Toronto draws No. 7 Orlando, with the Magic in the postseason for the first time since 2012. And No. 3 Philadelphia — a team wrapped in intrigue right now — will face No. 6 Brooklyn.Joel Embiid played in only 10 of the 76ers' 24 games since the All-Star break, and general manager Elton Brand told reporters Wednesday that "it is possible" the team's best scorer and rebounder won't be ready to start the playoffs.Embiid isn't the only injury situation that made headlines Wednesday: The Celtics announced that Marcus Smart will miss four to six weeks with an injury to his left oblique — a massive blow to Boston.WESTERN CONFERENCEPortland rallied from 28 points down on Wednesday against Sacramento — which blew a lead that large for the second time this season.Denver finished on a 15-0 run to beat Minnesota.And with that, the West bracket was shaken up one last time before it was finally set.Top-seeded Golden State will face the eighth-seeded Clippers, a matchup that was known after early results Wednesday. The rest went right down to the wire, with No. 2 Denver facing No. 7 San Antonio, No. 3 Portland getting No. 6 Oklahoma City and No. 4 Houston facing No. 5 Utah. It was a worst-case for Houston, which entered the season's final night in place to finish second, third or fourth in the West.The way the results fell means the Rockets, if they get past the Jazz, would likely see the Warriors in the second round — and not in the Western Conference finals. So there will be no rematch of last year's title series out West, a tussle where the Rockets had a 3-2 series lead before Chris Paul's hamstring balked and the Warriors went on to advance and reach the NBA Finals.The Nuggets clinched the No. 2 seed with their big rally to top the Timberwolves. The Blazers got to the No. 3 spot with their wild comeback to beat the Kings. The combination of those results dropped Houston to the No. 4 seed.SATURDAY SCHEDULEAll times EasternBrooklyn at Philadelphia, 2:30 p.m.Orlando at Toronto, 5 p.m.L.A. Clippers at Golden State, 8 p.m.San Antonio at Denver, 10:30 p.m.SUNDAY SCHEDULEAll times EasternIndiana at Boston, 1 p.m.Oklahoma City at Portland, 3:30 p.m.Detroit at Milwaukee, 7 p.m.Utah at Houston, 9:30 p.m.SCORING MARKNBA teams averaged 111.2 points this season, the 11th-highest mark in league history.It's also the highest scoring clip in the league since 1970-71.Records were set for 3-pointers made and attempted for the seventh straight season, along with total points for the fifth time in the last six years. NBA teams scored 273,573 points this season, fueled by new rules that allowed offenses more freedom of movement, a league-wide commitment to playing at a faster pace — and the still-growing love affair with the 3-pointer.In the 2012-13 season, NBA teams averaged 20 attempts from 3-point range — which was a record at that time. This season, they averaged 32 attempted 3s per game.FAREWELLA pair of legends played for the final time Wednesday night — and went out in style.Dwyane Wade had a triple-double for Miami at Brooklyn, 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists. Dirk Nowitzki had 20 points and 10 rebounds for Dallas at San Antonio.The Heat and Mavericks both lost, which was irrelevant to both clubs. The nights were about Wade and Nowitzki, both All-Stars this season.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — The NBA has rescinded technical fouls called on Golden State's Kevin Durant and JaMychal Green of the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 3 of their first-round playoff series.The players were called for double technicals early in the third quarter Thursday night at Staples Center as they jawed at each other. The Warriors won 132-105 and lead the series 2-1.Both players protested the call, and the league rescinded it Friday.Durant had been ejected from Game 1 with a double technical and he had accumulated three of the seven fouls allotted before the NBA would issue a one-game suspension until the latest tech was withdrawn.Durant said after the game Thursday that he hoped the foul would be rescinded because he doesn't want to jeopardize the two-time defending champions going forward.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFor Dwyane Wade's final NBA game, where else would his so-called Banana Boat Crew members be but on hand to see it?Wade ended his 16-year career with a bang Wednesday night, producing his fifth career triple-double as he amassed 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in the Miami Heat's 113-94 loss to the Brooklyn Nets.Sitting courtside to watch Wade in his final NBA game were his longtime friends and fellow NBA stars LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony.Of course they would be there, James said during the game. James was shut down for several of the Lakers' final games and Paul's Houston Rockets played their final regular-season game Tuesday night. Anthony did not sign with another NBA team after his release from the Chicago Bulls this season after he was traded by the Rockets."Listen, we all started this journey together," James told Fox Sports Southeast. "Obviously CP came into the league a couple years after us, but we have a brotherhood that is just so much more than basketball. CP played last night, we had our last regular-season game last night, and Melo is right here in New York, so we kind of made the plan and made the decision to come up here."The friends often travel together during the summer and picked up the Banana Boat Crew moniker after photos of them riding in one circulated on social media in 2016.James, who won two NBA titles with Wade in Miami, two of the three Wade won altogether, was asked about favorite memories of his friendship with Wade. James said a good answer to that would take a while."I mean, we'd be here all night talking. We'd be here all night talking about the best memories, or the most fond memories I have of D-Wade."The plane rides, the bus rides, the hotels when we get to the city we'd go to the hotel room and just chop it up, the dinners we had on the road, everything we did was always genuine. (There was) always love, and we always wanted the best for one another, no matter the good or the bad."I will say the most founding part was when we lost (to Dallas in 2011). Because, without '11, there's no (2013), no (2012 championship) banners hanging up in (AmericanAirlines Arena). That's what made us. That's what made our team."It's been an unbelievable journey for my guy, and I'm happy to be here for the last little part of the road before the train comes to a stop."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFor Dwyane Wade's final NBA game, where else would his so-called Banana Boat Crew members be but on hand to see it?Wade ended his 16-year career Wednesday night when his Miami Heat visited the Brooklyn Nets at the Barclays Center, and among the spectators were his longtime friends and fellow NBA stars LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony.Of course they would be there, James said during the game. James was shut down for several of the Lakers' final games and Paul's Thunder played their final regular-season game Tuesday night. Anthony did not sign with another NBA team after his release from the Rockets this season."Listen, we all started this journey together," James told Fox Sports Southeast. "Obviously CP came into the league a couple years after us, but we have a brotherhood that is just so much more than basketball. CP played last night, we had our last regular-season game last night, and Melo is right here in New York, so we kind of made the plan and made the decision to come up here."The friends often travel together during the summer and picked up the Banana Boat Crew moniker after photos of them riding in one circulated on social media in 2016.James, who won two NBA titles with Wade in Miami, two of the three Wade won altogether, was asked about favorite memories of his friendship with Wade. James said a good answer to that would take a while."I mean, we'd be here all night talking. We'd be here all night talking about the best memories, or the most fond memories I have of D-Wade."The plane rides, the bus rides, the hotels when we get to the city we'd go to the hotel room and just chop it up, the dinners we had on the road, everything we did was always genuine. (There was) always love, and we always wanted the best for one another, no matter the good or the bad."I will say the most founding part was when we lost (to Dallas in 2011). Because, without ‘11, there's no (2013), no (2012 championship) banners hanging up in (AmericanAirlines Arena). That's what made us. That's what made our team."It's been an unbelievable journey for my guy, and I'm happy to be here for the last little part of the road before the train comes to a stop."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTake a look at the five highest-scoring seasons in NBA history.— Wilt Chamberlain scored 4,029 points in 1961-62.— Chamberlain scored 3,586 in 1962-63.— Michael Jordan scored 3,041 points in 1986-87.— Chamberlain scored 3,033 in 1960-61.— Chamberlain scored 2,948 points in 1963-64.There they are. The five best seasons in terms of points that the NBA has ever seen. And those five seasons all have something in common — when they were over, someone not named Chamberlain or Jordan was the MVP.What James Harden did this season for the Houston Rockets was scintillating. He scored 50 or more points nine times. He scored 61 twice. He scored at least 30 points in 32 consecutive games, a stretch that lasted more than two months. He will finish this season with the seventh-highest scoring average in NBA history and win the scoring title by more than 8 points per game — a ridiculous margin.He wins Most Voluminous Points.But maybe not the Most Valuable Player.There are some tremendous individual races in the NBA this season, with a slew of deserving candidates for coach of the year, a rather unexpected two-person race for rookie of the year, and the annual befuddlement about who should win defensive player of the year. The ballot that voters will agonize over most, in some cases, will be the one for MVP.Is it Harden, for the second straight year?Or is it Milwaukee's Giannis Antetokounmpo?Compelling cases can be made either way. Harden carried the Rockets and became the most unguardable player in the league. Antetokounmpo took a team that finished seventh in the East last year and lifted it to the No. 1 overall seed in the NBA, continuing his meteoric rise toward total superstardom.Harden is the better scorer, Antetokounmpo the more accurate shooter. Harden is the better ballhandler and passer, Antetokounmpo the better rebounder and defender. Take Antetokounmpo off the Bucks, and they'd be lucky to make the playoffs. Take Harden off the Rockets, and they'd be lucky to make the playoffs.The biggest argument for Harden is the scoring. It has been sensational, without question.But there is precedent, as Chamberlain and Jordan learned. Even a gazillion points doesn't guarantee anyone the Maurice Podoloff Trophy.When these playoffs are over and the trophy is finally handed out in late June, Harden will find out if scoring was enough to win the vote this time.It is tradition in this space to end the regular season by having AP Basketball Writers Brian Mahoney and Tim Reynolds reveal their choices for certain awards and predict what will happen in the playoffs.Their selections:MVPMahoney: Antetokounmpo. Tough to demote Harden when he was even more valuable this season than last, but can't ignore a guy with the Greek Freak's stats on the surprise winningest team in the league.Reynolds: Antetokounmpo. He gets the nod over Harden because the Bucks enjoyed a level of success that few expected, and he's why.MOST IMPROVED PLAYERMahoney: D'Angelo Russell, Brooklyn. Didn't just have a great season. He saved one for a Nets team that was going nowhere.Reynolds: Pascal Siakam, Toronto. The Raptors were 14-3 when he had a double-double, and he more than doubled his scoring average.COACH OF THE YEARMahoney: Mike Budenholzer, Milwaukee. Oversaw improvements across the board to turn a team with playoff aspirations into one with championship aspirations.Reynolds: Doc Rivers, LA Clippers. Hard call over Budenholzer. Steve Kerr, Nick Nurse, Steve Clifford, Michael Malone and Kenny Atkinson also deserving.ROOKIE OF THE YEARMahoney: Luka Doncic, Dallas. Not many players become must-see TV before they even turn 20.Reynolds: Luka Doncic, Dallas. Trae Young came on like gangbusters at the end of the year, but Doncic was better from start to finish.EASTERN CONFERENCE CHAMPIONMahoney: Milwaukee. The Bucks do so many things well that they can find a way even when things get tougher.Reynolds: Toronto. Milwaukee is built for the long haul and might not be ready — yet. But for the Raptors, if not now, then when?WESTERN CONFERENCE CHAMPIONMahoney: Golden State. Still by far the best combination of talent and experience in the league.Reynolds: Golden State. If healthy, the Warriors are still the one to beat. And they want to send Oracle Arena out the right way.NBA CHAMPIONSMahoney: Warriors in 6.Reynolds: Warriors in 5.BOLD OFFSEASON PREDICTIONMahoney: The July 4 fireworks boom brightest in New York, where Kevin Durant is the centerpiece of a transformed Knicks team.Reynolds: If the Warriors win this title, and they should, expect the core to all come back and try to four-peat. Yes, including Durant.___Brian Mahoney is the AP Basketball Writer based in New York. Tim Reynolds is the AP Basketball Writer based in Miami.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe NBA rescinded technical fouls assessed to Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant and Los Angeles Clippers forward JaMychal Green on Friday after reviewing a call made during Thursday night's game.Durant and Green were exchanging words during the third quarter when the double-technical was called, stunning both players.The decision to rescind was announced from the league's @NBAOfficial account on Twitter.The change was good for Durant, as he already received two technicals earlier in the series. An accumulation of seven technicals during the postseason carries an automatic one-game suspension. He had lobbied for the technicals to be rescinded after Thursday's 132-105 victory.--Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, who missed Game 3 of his team's first-round playoff series against the Brooklyn Nets on Thursday night because of left knee soreness, is listed as doubtful for Game 4 on Saturday. The NBA announced his status in its injury report.Embiid's status has digressed from the first three games when he was listed as questionable. He continues to deal with left knee tendinitis, a problem throughout the regular season, when he missed 14 of the Sixers' 24 games after the All-Star break.Despite Embiid's absence in Game 3, the visiting 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory over the host Nets to take a 2-1 lead. Greg Monroe started in Embiid's place and collected nine points on 4-for-13 shooting and grabbed 13 rebounds. Game 4 of the best-of-seven will also be played in Brooklyn before the series shifts to Philadelphia on Tuesday.--The status of Detroit Pistons forward Blake Griffin remains uncertain entering Saturday's Game 3 of the team's Eastern Conference first-round series against the Milwaukee Bucks.Griffin missed the first two games with a left knee injury, and coach Dwane Casey didn't shed any light on whether the six-time All-Star will return on Saturday for the eighth-seeded Pistons, who lost the first two games of the series in Milwaukee by an average of 28 points."Day-to-day. I'm not talking about Blake," Casey told reporters after Friday's practice. "Day-to-day. Same old words. Just like I am on coaching -- day-to-day."--Former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue was scheduled to interview with the Los Angeles Lakers for their head coaching vacancy, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.The Lakers fired coach Luke Walton last week after three seasons and a 98-148 record.Lue, who previously served as an assistant coach for the Boston Celtics, L.A. Clippers and Cavaliers, became head coach in Cleveland during the 2015-16 season after David Blatt was fired.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersKentucky standout sophomore PJ Washington declared for the NBA Draft on Tuesday and will hire an agent, the school announced."This place has been my home for two years and it's hard for me to put in words how much I've grown in my time at Kentucky. The staff challenged me from day one to become the best version of myself and to work hard to become one of the best players in college basketball. I feel like I've done that," Washington said in a statement posted on the Wildcats' website.The 6-foot-8 forward ends his career with 932 points, 476 rebounds 120 assists and 74 blocks. He led the Wildcats in scoring (15.2) and rebounding (7.5) this past season. He also posted nine double-doubles and shot 52.2 percent from the floor, including 42.3 percent from the 3-point line.Washington earned first team All-SEC and third team All-America honors."PJ transformed everything about his game. He became a national player of the year candidate, he showed his full set of his skills and he improved his stock while helping us become one of the best teams in the country," Kentucky coach John Calipari said.Washington is projected to be a mid-first-round pick by ESPN.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Longhorns freshman Jaxson Hayes has declared for the NBA draft and will hire an agent, the school announced Thursday."I have always dreamed about playing in the NBA. Now that I have the chance to realize that dream, I would like to pursue that opportunity," Hayes said in a statement.The 6-foot-11 forward averaged 10 points and 5.0 rebounds in his only season with the Longhorns. He started 21 of 32 games and shot 72.8 percent from the floor.The Big 12 Freshman of the Year is a potential lottery pick, according to several draft outlets. ESPN ranks him as the No. 9 prospect.--LSU freshman guard Javonte Smart announced on social media that he will enter the draft, joining teammates Naz Reid, Skylar Mays and Tremont Waters.Smart averaged 11.1 points, 3.3 rebounds and 2.4 assists in his lone year in Baton Rouge.LSU sat Smart for the regular-season finale following the suspension of coach Will Wade over allegations he was linked to the NCAA's pay-for-play scandal. It has been speculated that Wade was part of a scheme to pay to gain Smart's commitment to LSU.--Stanford sophomore guard KZ Okpala announced he is entering the NBA draft.The first-team all-Pac-12 selection averaged a team-high 16.9 points with 5.7 rebounds in 29 games for the Cardinal in 2018-19. He scored a career-high 30 points in an 84-81 win at Cal on Feb. 3."It's exciting to apply what I have learned so far as I begin this journey and see where it takes me," said Okpala, who is ranked No. 26 on ESPN's list of the top 100 draft prospects.--Houston guard Armoni Brooks will declare for the NBA draft and test the process, Stadium sports network reported.Brooks, a 6-foot-3, 195-pound junior, averaged 13.4 points and a team-leading 6.3 rebounds per game this season for the Cougars, who finished 33-4 and lost to Kentucky in the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tournament. Brooks scored 20 points in the defeat.As a sophomore in 2017-18, he was named American Athletic Conference Sixth Man of the Year."Armoni is somebody who has had tangible progress every year," assistant coach Kellen Sampson told the Houston Chronicle during the NCAA Tournament. "Every year he made marked improvement to figure out how to rebound or on how to make some plays for himself. He's on a natural progression. He is a really good player, but he's finding his way to becoming that best player next year. He will be at the top of scouting reports."--Duke freshman forward Cam Reddish announced on Instagram that he is declaring for the NBA draft, and a school spokeman confirmed he will hire an agent."This season was epic, and I am so thankful to have had Duke as a part of the foundation that prepared me to play at the next level," Reddish wrote. "Never forget -- I am a Blue Devil for life. Proud to announce that I will be entering the 2019 NBA Draft."The 6-8 Reddish averaged 13.5 points, 3.7 rebounds and 29.7 minutes per game for the Blue Devils, who lost 68-67 to Michigan State in the Elite Eight of the NCAA Tournament. After fellow freshman RJ Barrett announced his intentions Wednesday to enter the draft, only Zion Williamson remains among Duke's Big Three to declare.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — The future of NBA basketball could look like European soccer.Tournaments that take place during the season along with league games intrigue Commissioner Adam Silver as a way to change the format of the NBA's 82-game season.If it even keeps an 82-game season.Silver mentioned everything from shorter games to a shorter season Friday as ways the NBA could make its future product better for players and fans."The format we have in place now — I'm a traditionalist on one hand, but on the other hand it's 50 years old or so, presenting an 82-game season, and there's nothing magical about it," Silver said."I think it's on the league office to always be challenging the way we do things, to be paying attention to changing viewer habits, a changing marketplace, a new world of the way media is presented, often on smaller devices, less on screens, people having shorter attention spans, and saying, 'This is an incredible game, it's never been more exciting, the athleticism has never been greater, fantastic players coming from all around the world, but what's the best way to put the season together?'"Silver has focused on player health as commissioner, opening the regular season earlier to reduce the frequency of back-to-back games, and lengthening the All-Star break.But players are still sitting out games throughout the season — either by their choice or because their teams are requiring it — often for reasons being listed as load management."I think a fair point from fans could be if ultimately the science suggests that 82 games is too many games for these players, maybe you shouldn't have an 82-game season," Silver said. "I accept that, and that's something we'll continue to look at."Fewer games could mean less revenue, unless they could be replaced by something that would generate as many or more viewers. Tournaments could be an answer, even if 82 games remains the format.Silver has pointed to European soccer as something that could bring new interest to the NBA by offering teams more opportunities to win something, instead of just having one champion."That's why I'm particularly interested in looking at different kinds of formats — at midseason tournaments, for example, play-in tournaments — because even accepting that players have so many miles on their bodies, there may be better ways to present it," Silver said. "Assuming guys are going to play 82 games, maybe there should be a certain number of games in the regular season and then there should be two tournaments throughout the season."He acknowledged that model would require a change of thinking in American fans, who are used to only caring about the winner of the NBA Finals.Silver also mentioned the possibility of trimming games from 48 minutes to 40, which is the length of college and international games.He cautioned that none of the changes he discussed after the league's Board of Governors meetings were close to being implemented, and would continue to be studied within the league, perhaps for a few years."Part of it is just the formality that they need to be negotiated with the Players Association, but even if the Players Association came to us and said, 'You guys know best, what is it you want,' I wouldn't know how to answer it," Silver said. "I think it's going to require a lot more research, a lot more thoughtfulness on behalf of the teams, players and the league working together."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTwo-time SEC Player of the Year Grant Williams announced Tuesday that he is entering the NBA draft but will remain open to returning to school for his senior season.The 6-foot-7 Williams said he will go through the process and make a decision at a later date about whether to stay in the draft. He has until May 29 to make up his mind."My whole thing is I want to go into the process with an open mind and understand what I need to improve on and what I need to get better at, while also understanding I have to make the most informed decision possible," Williams said during a press conference. "If it is the right time, then it is the right time. It is just a matter of going into it with the mindset that I'm going into it to improve myself."Williams averaged 18.8 points and 7.5 rebounds this season while earning first-team All-American honors.The Volunteers (31-6) matched the school record for victories and reached the Sweet 16 before losing to Purdue. Williams allows that there is unfinished business."No doubt. There's always that (thought) process of there's more that we can do, more that we can accomplish," Williams said. "That's something that is always going to be in your mind throughout the process no matter what is going on. You have to understand that it's a win-win."If you come back, there's a lot more you can do as a team and individually in the future it can be a win in that aspect as well."Williams' decision to test the NBA waters comes one day after coach Rick Barnes decided to turn down overtures from UCLA to remain at Tennessee."I talked to him three or four times," Williams said of Barnes. "I reached out to him and he reached out to me. I let him know I trusted him because he is a guy who had never been about himself, it has never been about money. It has never been about anything of that sort. It has been about how he can impact people's lives."I know that Coach Barnes, his goal is he wants a championship. In order to make that happen, he knows he can do it here. He knew he could do it wherever he went. I think being here at the University of Tennessee is something that helps him be comfortable."Tennessee point guard Jordan Bone also recently entered the draft. He also is open to returning to the Volunteers.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHere are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Tech standout Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, announced Thursday he will forgo his last two seasons in Lubbock and declare for the 2019 NBA Draft.The 6-foot-5, 195-pound guard made the announcement during a press conference in Lubbock, Texas.Culver helped lead the Red Raiders to a share of the Big 12 regular-season title and was effective in this year's NCAA Tournament, where Texas Tech fell to Virginia 85-77 in overtime in the national championship game.On the season, Culver averaged 18.5 points, 6.4 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game while the Red Raiders set a school record with 31 wins.--Also announcing his plans to declare for the draft was 18-year-old Russian Nikita Mikhailovskii, according to a report by ESPN.The 6-foot-8, 180-pound wing is trying to become the first Russian player drafted since 2013 when Sergey Karasev was chosen with the 19th pick by the Cleveland Cavaliers.Mikhailovskii spent the past season playing in the mostly Russian VTB United League and FIBA Europe Cup, averaging 7.8 points in 16.8 minutes while shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range in 45 games.--The Memphis Grizzlies hired two former general managers to their front office, adding Rich Cho as vice president of strategy and Glen Grunwald as senior adviser.Cho is a former GM of the Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers, and Grunwald was GM of the New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors.The Grizzlies demoted former GM Chris Wallace to a scouting role in a flurry of moves last week, including the firing of head coach J.B. Bickerstaff and the promotion of Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations.--Los Angeles Clippers assistant general manager Trent Redden reportedly is close to interviewing for a senior front-office role with the New Orleans Pelicans.The Clippers gave the Pelicans permission to discuss the position with Redden, ESPN reported, citing league sources.David Griffin, the Pelicans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, worked closely with Redden when they with the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 2016 NBA championship season. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski noted that Griffin is expected to be "aggressive" in pursuing Redden.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLEXINGTON, Ky. — Kentucky freshman guard Tyler Herro will enter the NBA draft pool and hire an agent but leave open the possibility of returning to school.Herro is the third Wildcats underclassman to enter the draft, joining forward PJ Washington and guard Keldon Johnson. The 6-foot-5 player from Milwaukee, Wisconsin, says in a news release Friday that he wanted to see where he stood in the draft process and make an informed decision, "but also leave my options open."New NCAA rules allow players to sign with an NCAA-certified agent and still return to school. He has until May 29 to decide on coming back for his sophomore season. The NBA Draft is June 20 in New York.Herro was Kentucky's No. 2 scorer at 14 points per game with 60 made 3-pointers on 36% shooting.He was named Southeastern Conference Newcomer of the Year by The Associated Press. SEC coaches selected him to the All-Freshman Team and All-SEC second team.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Longhorns freshman Jaxson Hayes has declared for the NBA draft and will hire an agent, the school announced Thursday."I have always dreamed about playing in the NBA. Now that I have the chance to realize that dream, I would like to pursue that opportunity," Hayes said in a statement.The 6-foot-11 forward averaged 10 points and 5.0 rebounds in his only season with the Longhorns. He started 21 of 32 games and shot 72.8 percent from the floor.The Big 12 Freshman of the Year is a potential lottery pick, according to several draft outlets. ESPN ranks him as the No. 9 prospect.--LSU freshman guard Javonte Smart announced on social media that he will enter the draft, joining teammates Naz Reid, Skylar Mays and Tremont Waters.Smart averaged 11.1 points, 3.3 rebounds and 2.4 assists in his lone year in Baton Rouge.LSU sat Smart for the regular-season finale following the suspension of coach Will Wade over allegations he was linked to the NCAA's pay-for-play scandal. It has been speculated that Wade was part of a scheme to pay to gain Smart's commitment to LSU.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBERLIN — Retired NBA champion Dirk Nowitzki, who spent 21 seasons at the Dallas Mavericks, could see himself returning to basketball as coach or manager in a few years time, the German said.The 40-year-old future Hall of Famer ended his sparkling career last week after more than two decades at the Mavericks with whom he was crowned NBA champion in 2011 and was a 14-time All Star."After one or two years I can see myself being happy... as a coach or a manager," Nowitzki told Germany's Die Zeit newspaper in an interview to be published on Wednesday."I would like to be a mentor for a young player and... accompany them through their career in my very own way."For now, Nowitzki is content to put his feet up and enjoy a glass of wine and a slice of cake, something he could not do for years as a professional player."In the past week I had some cake and I also had my first glass of wine after 10 years of abstinence," he said. "I was really warm inside after only a few sips. That felt good."Nowitzki holds the record for having played the most seasons for the same club and is sixth in the all-time scorers list of the NBA.Nagging injuries, however, took their toll on his body and continuing his career past the current season was impossible."What I did not want to happen under any circumstance was to say goodbye and be sitting at home, thinking 'damn, you would really like to play now. Why did you do this'," he said."But my body was not good. To be honest my foot where I had surgery last year was not well throughout the year. I knew it would not be getting any better." (Reporting by Karolos Grohmann; Editing by Christian Radnedge)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDURHAM, N.C. — Zion Williamson is leaving Duke after one high-flying season to enter the NBA draft.Widely projected as the top overall pick in the June draft, the AP national player of the year announced his decision Monday.The 6-foot-7, 285-pound Williamson captivated all of college basketball with his freakish, once-in-a-generation athleticism, his energy at both ends of the floor and his omnipresent charisma.The Atlantic Coast Conference player and rookie of the year averaged 22.6 points — tied for the league lead with teammate RJ Barrett — and 8.9 rebounds. Along the way, he became the face of college basketball this season, routinely coming up with at least one highlight-reel play or show-stopping dunk per game.His decision to turn pro came as no surprise. In fact, he spent the season greeting NBA chatter with a playful wink and a knowing nod.He said it would be "dope" to play on a hypothetical New York Knicks team with Kyrie Irving and Kevin Durant. Upon learning that LeBron James and Stephen Curry were talking about him during All-Star weekend, he responded that he's "hoping to be there competing against them next year."During his lone college season, he helped the Blue Devils earn the No. 1 ranking in the final AP Top 25 and the top overall seed in the NCAA Tournament. Duke was knocked out by Michigan State in the East Regional final.Now that he's headed to the NBA, one key subplot to follow is which sneaker company will land his endorsement.In one of the signature moments of the season, Williamson blew out his left Nike shoe — the PG 2.5, the signature shoe of Oklahoma City star Paul George — and sprained his right knee in the opening minute of what became a lopsided home loss to rival North Carolina.The impact was immediate — Nike's stock price took a hit the next day, and the shoe company sent a team of representatives to campus to investigate. When Williamson returned roughly three weeks later for the ACC Tournament, he wore a pair of modified size-15 Nikes from the signature line of Irving, a Boston Celtics All-Star and former one-and-done player at Duke.Williamson joins Cam Reddish and Barrett as classmates headed to the pros after one season. Point guard Tre Jones says he will return to school for his sophomore year.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSpeaking to local media around midday Thursday, Memphis Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said he hadn't talked with team owner Robert Pera yet, but he could make one declaration: Head coach J.B. Bickerstaff would return for a second season. Two hours later, that decision had changed, and several other moves were made.The Grizzlies fired Bickerstaff and demoted Wallace to a scouting role.Memphis also named Jason Wexler as team president with "oversight of both business and basketball operations," the team said in a statement. The Grizzlies promoted Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations, with former VP John Hollinger reassigned to a senior advisory position."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a reenergized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."--Sacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said.Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs. The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final postseason spot in the West.--Larry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed to part ways."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.--Cardiologists have cleared Chicago Bulls forward Lauri Markkanen to resume full basketball activities, the team announced.Markkanen, 21, experienced extreme fatigue and an accelerated heart rate during a game in Toronto on March 26. A battery of tests conducted at Chicago's Rush University Medical Center and Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore determined that dehydration and nutrient deficiency caused his symptoms.The 7-footer missed the rest of the regular season, finishing his second campaign with averages of 18.7 points and 9.0 rebounds in 52 games.--The Phoenix Suns officially named James Jones as general manager, giving him control over all basketball operations for the team.The Suns also added Jeff Bower as senior vice president of basketball operations and retained Trevor Bukstein as assistant general manager. Both will report to Jones, the team announced in a statement.Jones, 38, who played 14 seasons in the league and won three NBA championships, had served as Phoenix's VP of basketball operations the past two seasons. He shared GM duties this past season with Bukstein.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCount Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James among those who were stunned by team president Magic Johnson's resignation on Tuesday night. But according to ESPN's Ramona Shelburne on Wednesday, James still stands behind the organization and Lakers owner Jeanie Buss.ESPN also reported that head coach Luke Walton participated in exit meetings with the players on Wednesday. Walton's job security is in jeopardy after the Lakers (37-45) missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season despite the offseason signing of James to a four-year, $154 million deal.James, 34, battled injuries and appeared in a career-low 55 games and averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists per game in 2018-19.--Following his meeting with Walton, James headed to New York, where he, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony watched Dwyane Wade play his final NBA game. The Miami Heat closed out the season against the Brooklyn Nets.After a pregame video tribute to Wade, the retiring superstar went over and hugged each of his three friends. The four have been friends for years, their bond immortalized by a photo of James, Wade and Paul riding a banana boat together while on vacation in 2015. Anthony was not in the picture but was also on vacation with the group.--Boston Celtics guard Marcus Smart has a torn left oblique and could miss the first two rounds of the Eastern Conference playoffs, according to a report from ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski.Smart averaged 8.9 points, 4.0 assists and 2.9 rebounds this season for the Celtics, who will be the fourth seed in the East after posting a 49-33 regular-season record. Boston will open at home this weekend against the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers. The physical guard is noted as one of the NBA's top defenders.Smart sustained the injury in a game against the Orlando Magic on Sunday, and he did not play in Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.--Anthony Davis acknowledged that despite his desire to leave New Orleans, he could begin the 2019-20 season with the Pelicans."I'm under contract still," Davis said during an informal season-ending news conference. "I have a year left. Obviously it's a possibility it could happen. I don't have ill will toward anybody. I know that it's a possibility that next year I could be here as well. So I can't be mad if I'm here next year."Davis said his next step will be to see who emerges as the general manager for the Pelicans. Dell Demps was fired in February after his handling of the Davis situation, and Danny Ferry is the interim general manager.--The Phoenix Suns have hired longtime NBA general manager Jeff Bower as their vice president of operations, Wojnarowski reported.Bower, 57, was general manager of the then-New Orleans Hornets from October 2005 to July 2010, and he also served as the team's head coach for most of the 2009-10 season after the firing of Byron Scott.The Suns have been without a general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.--The Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.Saunders, 32, is the youngest head coach in the league. He took over when Tom Thibodeau was fired in early January and has earned the endorsement of his players, most notably from All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.The Timberwolves were 36-45 entering Wednesday night's season finale at Denver, including a 17-24 mark under Saunders' leadership. Saunders reportedly will receive a three-year deal with a team option on the final season.--The Timberwolves also announced that guard Jeff Teague underwent successful debridement surgery Tuesday to clean out his left ankle. The team had no additional updates as to any recovery timetable.Teague played in 42 games for the Minnesota this season, averaging 12.1 points and a career-best 8.2 assists in 30.1 minutes. The team shut him down for the season in mid-March.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — Jarrett Culver knew Texas Tech desperately needed him to make a big leap after a solid freshman year so he charged full-speed into an offseason determined to refine and expand every element of his game.De'Andre Hunter needed a little longer to do the same at Virginia, even by spending a year as a redshirt watching from the sidelines.Yet here they are in Minneapolis, a pair of players who have blossomed into bonafide NBA prospects for teams a win away from becoming a first-time national champion. Consider it proof — or maybe simply a needed reminder — that college players can still take a slightly longer path to becoming top-tier NBA prospects amid the college game's starry-eyed infatuation with one-and-done talents."You can do that," Culver said Sunday, the day before his Red Raiders meet Hunter's Cavaliers in the national-title game. "The one-and-dones, they're very talented guys coming out of high school and they get looked at a lot. My route was just a little different. I don't know how long I'll be in college. I just know if you put the work in and set your goals, you can do whatever you set your mind to."Look, no one is going to confuse Culver and Hunter for flashier players with tantalizing upside like Duke's Zion Williamson this season or Arizona's Deandre Ayton a year earlier. Yet Culver, a 6-foot-5 sophomore, is the undisputed first (maybe second and third, as well) offensive option with enough versatility to lead the defensively inclined Red Raiders in scoring, rebounding and assists.As for Hunter, the 6-7 redshirt sophomore has developed into a more assertive scorer with 3-point range. Yet it's his defensive versatility that stands out with his ability to defend inside or out — he even checked talented North Carolina freshman point guard Coby White late in a February road win — as the Division I defensive player of the year for the National Association of Basketball Coaches.Check any mock draft, and their names are easy to find. Both are frequently listed among the top 10 picks if they entered the NBA draft after the season ends. And it's likely they'll be matched up against each other at least during some during Monday night's championship game."They'll both be (high) if they both come out, but this is not a great year for the draft," ESPN analyst Jay Bilas said. "You've obviously got the super talent in the top five, the top four. But who knows where they'd go in another year? I think they're first-round talents in most any year."That's what's going to cause a number of players to come out this year: they want to go higher, they would go higher this year than perhaps in another one. Not these two, these two are legit."That's not to say either has been flawless in the NCAA Tournament.Culver averaged 21.5 points through the four-game push through the West Region, but was quiet nearly all Saturday night before scoring seven of his 10 points in the final three minutes to help Texas Tech hold off Michigan State's rally.As for Hunter, he had a rough two-game set in the regionals by making just 8 of 23 shots (34.7 followed by an ineffective first half in Saturday's first national semifinal against Auburn before playing far more assertively after the break."I think he's hard on himself," Virginia coach Tony Bennett said. "If he's missing shots or not helping his team, he puts a lot on himself. We talked about it: 'Be free, man. Go after this. We need you.'"Consider it the next phase of Hunter's growth as a player."I just try to live up to my my own expectations," Hunter said. "I know how hard I work, I know the things I do every day. It gets kind of frustrating at times but I just try to get back to doing what I do and playing the game free."When asked, both players point to the other's ability to affect the game at both ends of the court. Their descriptions could have easily applied to themselves.Fitting, considering they've taken a similar route to what they hope is a net-cutting finish on the way to the NBA."What it says is that players mature at different rates," Bilas said. "Some players are ready when they're freshmen, there are some players that stay in school four years because they want to, some stay three because they want to. There's no one set path to anything, including basketball."______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points. At age 39, he became the oldest player ever to reach 50 in an NBA game.Heat 122, 76ers 99Dwyane Wade, playing the final home game of his NBA career, scored 30 points to lead Miami over Philadelphia.Wade made 10 of 23 shots, including 4 of 10 on attempts from beyond the arc. It was his second-highest scoring game of the season. But it was a bittersweet night for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention earlier in the evening when the Detroit Pistons rallied from a 22-point deficit to defeat the Memphis Grizzlies.Philadelphia, which has already clinched the third seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs, rested two of its stars: Joel Embiid, who was listed as having a knee injury, and JJ Redick (back).Warriors 112, Pelicans 103DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds against his former team as visiting Golden State defeated New Orleans.After clinching home-court advantage throughout the Western Conference playoffs on Sunday, the Warriors had Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson, Andre Iguodala and Andrew Bogut among their inactive players. Stephen Curry left for game after scoring five points in nine minutes in what the Warriors called "a precaution" after he sustained a mild foot sprain.Jahlil Okafor scored 30 points to lead the short-handed Pelicans, who dressed just eight players and finished the season 33-49.Raptors 120, Timberwolves 100Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points as visiting Toronto completed its regular-season schedule with a victory over Minnesota.The Raptors (58-24) secured the second-best record in the Eastern Conference with the win, behind only the Milwaukee Bucks (60-21), who play their final game Wednesday.Fred VanVleet added 16 points for the Raptors, Chris Boucher added career bests with 15 points and 13 rebounds, and Pascal Siakam and Norman Powell each scored 10 points. Gorgui Dieng and Andrew Wiggins each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves.Jazz 118, Nuggets 108Donovan Mitchell matched his career best of 46 points, and Utah posted a victory over Denver in Salt Lake City.Rudy Gobert added 20 points and 10 rebounds as Utah notched its ninth straight home win against Denver. Utah locked up the No. 5 seed for the Western Conference playoffs.Malik Beasley scored 25 points on 9-of-13 shooting for the Nuggets, who have lost four of their past six games and are a half-game ahead of Houston after the Rockets fell to the Oklahoma City Thunder on Tuesday.Trail Blazers 104, Lakers 101Instead of quietly sneaking into the offseason after losing its season finale to playoff-bound Portland, Los Angeles made some noise when Magic Johnson announced his resignation as president of basketball operations for the team.The game still meant something for Portland, though, and the Trail Blazers clinched home-court advantage in the first round of the Western Conference playoffs when Maurice Harkless made a 3-pointer at the buzzer for a win. The Trail Blazers can overtake the Rockets on a tiebreaker to finish third in the West with a win against the visiting Sacramento Kings on Wednesday.Harkless, who left the previous game with left hip tightness, finished with 26 points. Kentavious Caldwell-Pope had 32 points and eight assists for the Lakers, who finished with 37 wins -- two more than last season.Thunder 112, Rockets 111Russell Westbrook scored 29 points, but it was Paul George's corner 3-pointer with 1.8 seconds left that sent Oklahoma City to a home win over Houston.Oklahoma City trailed by 14 early in the fourth quarter and by four in the final minute before Westbrook's and George's heroics.James Harden made his first 12 free throws in the game but with less than 10 seconds left and Houston on top 111-109, he missed one, giving the Thunder a chance to tie or take the lead. Westbrook barreled up the court, briefly handing the ball off to Steven Adams near midcourt before getting the ball and firing it to George in the corner for what proved to be the game-winner.Celtics 116, Wizards 100Terry Rozier led seven Boston players in double figures with 21 points as his team closed out the regular season with a win over host Washington.The Celtics rallied from a 13-point, third-quarter deficit for their sixth win in eight games. Boston, which played without Marcus Smart, Jayson Tatum, Kyrie Irving, Al Horford, Marcus Morris, Aron Baynes and Gordon Hayward, will be the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs.Semi Ojeleye, Brad Wanamaker and RJ Hunter had 17 points apiece for Boston, which outscored Washington 27-15 in the fourth quarter. Tomas Satoransky led the Wizards with 19 points, and Bradley Beal scored 16 points in 16 minutes. Beal became the first person in franchise history to finish a season averaging at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists per game.Pistons 100, Grizzlies 93Andre Drummond scored 20 points and grabbed 17 rebounds, and Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to defeat visiting Memphis.Despite winning, the Pistons were unable to clinch the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. The Charlotte Hornets beat the Cleveland Cavaliers and remain one game behind Detroit heading into Wednesday night's final regular-season games. The Pistons finish against the Knicks at New York while the Hornets host the Orlando Magic.The Pistons, who trailed by 22 in the second quarter, climbed all the way back and took an 85-83 lead on Ish Smith's jumper just moments after his 3-pointer tied the score at 83-all. Smith finished with 22 points off the bench, and Luke Kennard added 15 for Detroit.Hornets 124, Cavaliers 97Kemba Walker and Jeremy Lamb scored 23 points apiece, and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive with a victory over host Cleveland.The Hornets led by 12 points in the first half and then pushed the lead all the way to 27 in the fourth quarter, winning their fourth straight and eighth in their past 11 games. They hit a season-high 22 3-pointers on 44 attempts and shot 57.7 percent from the field.Miles Bridges and Dwayne Bacon added 18 points apiece for the Hornets. Frank Kaminsky scored 14 and Devonte Graham had 10. Collin Sexton led the Cavs with 18 points.Knicks 96, Bulls 86Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points and Kevin Knox and Luke Kornet each notched double-doubles to lead New York past host Chicago.Knox had 17 points and 10 rebounds, Kornet chipped in 12 points and 13 rebounds and Damyean Dotson added 12 points for the Knicks (17-64), who are already assured of the NBA's worst record this season. They can do no worse than tie the franchise record for fewest wins in a regular season, set in 2014-15.The Bulls closed the home portion of their schedule with a 9-32 record, setting a franchise record for home futility. The 2000-01 team held the previous club standard for fewest home victories with 10.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersKentucky freshman guard Tyler Herro on Wednesday announced his intention to declare for the NBA draft via a social media post but left his options open for a return to the school.Herro said he will work with an agent, within new eligibility rules, in order to get feedback from teams on where he might land in the draft. If his draft stock is not as high as he had hoped, he said he will return to the Kentucky program."If the evaluations tell me I need to elevate my game further, I would be thrilled to return to Kentucky and help this team compete for a championship," Herro said in a statement. "Whatever happens over the next couple of months, I want to thank (Kentucky fans) for (their) support this season and throughout this process."Herro averaged 14.0 points this past season, second on the Wildcats. He led the team with 60 made 3-pointers, while shooting 93.5 percent from the free throw line, a Kentucky single-season record. He led the Wildcats with 32.6 minutes per game.The 6-foot-5, 195-pounder was a five-star recruit out of Whitnall High School in the Milwaukee area, where he was first team all-state in Wisconsin and averaged 32.9 points per game.Kentucky coach John Calipari offered his support to Herro via a Twitter post Friday."What I'm most proud of is how Tyler became not only an efficient offensive player but an efficient defensive player," Calipari wrote. "He's wired and driven like only a few others I've coached. I've had an absolute ball coaching him. Whatever he decides to do in the end, I will support."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThere are two very compelling reasons why Orlando has Toronto's attention.Or 31 of them, perhaps.The Raptors lost to the Magic twice this season. And Milwaukee, Toronto and Orlando all were tied for the Eastern Conference's best record over the final 31 games of the season — all going 22-9 down the stretch. So when the Raptors play host to the Magic on Saturday in Game 1 of an Eastern Conference first-round series, Toronto expects a red-hot opponent."They're playing very well," Raptors coach Nick Nurse said. "Very well coached. They've got some metrics that speak volumes about who they are. They don't turn the ball over, they don't give up transition baskets, they don't let you get offensive rebounds. They're very methodical in their offensive execution. ... And they're long, man. They're long and athletic."It's a good squad we're playing."Toronto came into this season with the highest of expectations, especially after getting Kawhi Leonard over the summer. The Raptors delivered in the regular season, managing Leonard's workload — he played only 60 games — while still finishing with the second-best record in the NBA."Nothing matters until now," Raptors guard Kyle Lowry said. "Now — this is what matters."The Magic were no playoff lock. They looked like the season was over at the end of January. But their turnaround has been stellar, and for the first time since 2012, the playoffs are their reward.Magic coach Steve Clifford said he has a simple message to his team: "Play our game.""You don't want to change," Clifford said. "You play well for a certain reason. What you're not going to do is reinvent yourself because it's a playoff game. Play the way we play. Play the way we've played this last 31 games. That's what we need to do."The Raptors won't be at full strength for Game 1, and probably won't be for a while.Key reserve OG Anunoby had an emergency appendectomy Thursday night in Toronto, after being diagnosed with acute appendicitis. There's no timetable for his return — and the Raptors are still without Patrick McCaw, who's sidelined with a thumb injury.But Leonard is full-go, and feeling good as well."We did a good job," Leonard said of the season-long load-management plan for him. "Nothing flared up or got worse. The way I'm feeling today, I feel like we did a great job."Magic center Nikola Vucevic said he has sensed a real change in his team over the final 31 games."We're more mature, in a way," Vucevic said. "We just understand what it takes to win."Here's some other things to know going into Game 1:EXPERIENCE MATTERSToronto's likely starting five of Marc Gasol (59), Pascal Siakam (12), Kawhi Leonard (87), Danny Green (100) and Kyle Lowry (62) have a combined 320 games of playoff experience. Orlando's projected lineup of Jonathan Isaac (0), Aaron Gordon (0), Nikola Vucevic (1), Evan Fournier (28) and D.J. Augustin (4) have a combined 33 postseason appearances.CONSISTENT RAPTORSToronto seems to be dogged annually for not yet breaking through and winning a title, or even reaching the NBA Finals. But 27 other teams would happily change places with the Raptors, at least in recent years. Toronto is one of only three franchises with a playoff series win in each of the last three seasons — with Cleveland and Golden State the others.HEAD TO HEADToronto and Orlando split four games this season, each going 1-1 at home. Orlando handed Toronto the biggest loss of its season, a 116-87 defeat on Dec. 28 — a game that was notable for two reasons. Nikola Vucevic had a monster 30-point, 20-rebound game and the Raptors (who went into that night with the NBA's best record) gave Kyle Lowry the night off to deal with back pain.CLIFF WINSThe Magic have had six winning seasons in the last 16 years. Clifford has been part of all six — he was an assistant on five straight winning teams under Stan Van Gundy from 2007-12, and Orlando went 42-40 this season in his return to the organization. The Magic have won 11 series in franchise history and Clifford was on the staff for six of those victories.GORDON WATCHOrlando's Aaron Gordon is about to get his first taste of playoff basketball, and he's hoping for a breakthrough against Toronto. Gordon — a 16.7 point-per-game scorer over the last two seasons — has played against the Raptors 17 times and has never scored more than 16 points in any of those games. He's shooting 38 percent in his career against Toronto.___Associated Press Writer Ian Harrison in Toronto contributed to this story.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersMike Scott hit a 3-pointer with 18.6 seconds remaining to lift the visiting Philadelphia 76ers past the Brooklyn Nets 112-108 to take a 3-1 lead in the Eastern Conference opening-round playoff series on Saturday.Joel Embiid led the Sixers with 31 points, 16 rebounds, seven assists and six blocked shots. Embiid, who had been listed as doubtful, started for the Sixers after missing Game 3 with left knee soreness. Tobias Harris added 24 points while Ben Simmons had 15 points, eight rebounds and eight assists.Caris LeVert led the Nets with 25 points while Allen and D'Angelo Russell had 21 apiece. The Nets were without forward Ed Davis, who had a sprained right ankle.The game became quite chippy with 7:42 left in the third after Embiid committed a hard foul on Allen. There was a lot of pushing and shoving between multiple players on both teams. Dudley and Philadelphia's Jimmy Butler were each ejected in the aftermath of a scuffle and Embiid was given a flagrant 1 foul.Nuggets 117, Spurs 103Nikola Jokic racked up 29 points, grabbed 12 rebounds and added eight assists as visiting Denver rolled over San Antonio in Game 4 to even the Western Conference first-round playoff series at two games apiece.Game 5 in the best-of-seven set will be Tuesday in Denver, with the second-seeded Nuggets' win Saturday allowing them to reclaim the home-court advantage. The victory snapped a 14-game losing streak for the Nuggets in the Alamo City, dating back to March 2012.Jamal Murray added 24 points for Denver. Small forward Torrey Craig, inserted into the starting lineup for the first time since Jan. 28, hit for 18 points. LaMarcus Aldridge led the Spurs with 24 points and nine rebounds, with DeMar DeRozan adding 19 points before being ejected late in the game.Bucks 119, Pistons 103Khris Middleton recorded 20 points and nine rebounds to help Milwaukee defeat host Detroit to take a 3-0 lead in the Eastern Conference first-round series.Brook Lopez recorded 19 points, seven rebounds and five blocks and Eric Bledsoe also scored 19 points for the top-seeded Bucks. Giannis Antetokounmpo registered 14 points and 10 rebounds for his third straight double-double in the series.Detroit's Blake Griffin had 27 points, seven rebounds and six assists in his first appearance in the series due to a left knee injury. Griffin played with his knee and leg heavily wrapped. Detroit has lost 13 straight playoff games dating back to 2008 to match the dubious NBA mark set by the New York Knicks (2001-12).--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersMike Scott hit a 3-pointer with 18.6 seconds remaining to lift the visiting Philadelphia 76ers past the Brooklyn Nets 112-108 to take a 3-1 lead in the Eastern Conference opening-round playoff series on Saturday.Joel Embiid led the Sixers with 31 points, 16 rebounds, seven assists and six blocked shots. Embiid, who had been listed as doubtful, started for the Sixers after missing Game 3 with left knee soreness. Tobias Harris added 24 points while Ben Simmons had 15 points, eight rebounds and eight assists.Caris LeVert led the Nets with 25 points while Allen and D'Angelo Russell had 21 apiece. The Nets were without forward Ed Davis, who had a sprained right ankle.The game became quite chippy with 7:42 left in the third after Embiid committed a hard foul on Allen. There was a lot of pushing and shoving between multiple players on both teams. Dudley and Philadelphia's Jimmy Butler were each ejected in the aftermath of a scuffle and Embiid was given a flagrant 1 foul.Rockets 104, Jazz 101James Harden had 22 points, 10 assists and six steals to rally Houston to victory over Utah in Salt Lake City for a 3-0 series lead.Harden went 0-of-14 from the field through the first three quarters. He missed 15 straight shots overall before scoring on a dunk with 7:34 left in the fourth quarter. Harden finished 3-of-20 from the field but made hay at the free-throw line by sinking 14 of 16 attempts.Donovan Mitchell scored 34 points to lead the Jazz. Derrick Favors added 13 points, while Rudy Gobert chipped in 10 points, eight rebounds, and seven blocked shots, but Utah couldn't overcome 14 turnovers and 13 missed free throws.Nuggets 117, Spurs 103Nikola Jokic racked up 29 points, grabbed 12 rebounds and added eight assists as visiting Denver rolled over San Antonio in Game 4 to even the Western Conference first-round playoff series at two games apiece.Game 5 in the best-of-seven set will be Tuesday in Denver, with the second-seeded Nuggets' win Saturday allowing them to reclaim the home-court advantage. The victory snapped a 14-game losing streak for the Nuggets in the Alamo City, dating back to March 2012.Jamal Murray added 24 points for Denver. Small forward Torrey Craig, inserted into the starting lineup for the first time since Jan. 28, hit for 18 points. LaMarcus Aldridge led the Spurs with 24 points and nine rebounds, with DeMar DeRozan adding 19 points before being ejected late in the game.Bucks 119, Pistons 103Khris Middleton recorded 20 points and nine rebounds to help Milwaukee defeat host Detroit to take a 3-0 lead in the Eastern Conference first-round series.Brook Lopez recorded 19 points, seven rebounds and five blocks and Eric Bledsoe also scored 19 points for the top-seeded Bucks. Giannis Antetokounmpo registered 14 points and 10 rebounds for his third straight double-double in the series.Detroit's Blake Griffin had 27 points, seven rebounds and six assists in his first appearance in the series due to a left knee injury. Griffin played with his knee and leg heavily wrapped. Detroit has lost 13 straight playoff games dating back to 2008 to match the dubious NBA mark set by the New York Knicks (2001-12).--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersJayson Tatum buried a go-ahead 3-pointer with 50.8 seconds remaining Wednesday night, allowing the host Boston Celtics to overcome a late Indiana Pacers flurry and pull out a 99-91 victory in Game 2 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.With the fourth-seeded Celtics having successfully held serve on their home court to go up 2-0 in the best-of-seven set, the fifth-seeded Pacers will host Games 3 and 4 on Friday night and Sunday afternoon.Indiana blew a 12-point, fourth-quarter lead. However, the Pacers appeared primed to even the series when Wesley Matthews and Bojan Bogdanovic combined for three 3-pointers in a 70-second spurt, allowing Indiana to retake a 91-89 advantage with 2:16 to go.But the Pacers didn't score again, and the Celtics finally did when Tatum drilled his third 3-pointer of the game for a one-point lead in the final minute. The Celtics scored the game's final 10 points.Rockets 118, Jazz 98James Harden posted his third career postseason triple-double, and Houston recorded another rout of visiting Utah in Game 2 of a Western Conference first-round series.Harden totaled 32 points, 13 rebounds and 10 assists in the wire-to-wire victory. After Utah utilized an unorthodox defensive approach against Harden in the series opener, Harden exploded for 25 first-half points Wednesday on 8-of-15 shooting, including 5-of-9 accuracy on 3-point attempts.He finished 11 of 24 from the floor, 6 of 13 from long distance. Harden, however, did commit a game-high eight turnovers. The Rockets will take a 2-0 series lead to Salt Lake City for Game 3 on Saturday.Bucks 120, Pistons 99Giannis Antetokounmpo sparked the decisive run in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference first-round series, scoring Milwaukee's first seven points of the second half in a win over visiting Detroit.The top-seeded Bucks lead the best-of-seven series two games to none. Game 3 is scheduled for Saturday in Detroit, where the eighth-seeded Pistons will try to snap a 12-game postseason losing streak that dates back to 2008. That's tied for the second-longest postseason losing streak in NBA history, behind only the New York Knicks' 13 consecutive losses from 2001-12.Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points during a third quarter in which the Bucks outscored the Pistons 35-17. He also grabbed a team-high 12 rebounds.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressINDEPENDENCE, Ohio — The Cavaliers aren't chasing a championship this spring. They're pursuing a coach.This time, methodically.No longer NBA title contenders, Cleveland is in the initial stages of an expansive, open-minded search general manager Koby Altman hopes will lead to finding the right coach for his young team, which is coming off a 63-loss season."We have to preach patience and we have to continue to grow this thing and we have to find a leader that's obsessed with that process of growing," Altman said Friday while outlining the type of candidates he'll interview. "We're tasked with doing that. We're excited about the next steps. We're done in April for the first time in four years, so we have a lot of time."At this time a year ago, the Cavs were preparing to make another deep playoff run. They made the Finals for the fourth straight year, but fell short in June against Golden State and then suffered a more devastating blow when LeBron James left a month later. The team endured severe growing pains this past season, which included a coaching change and countless injuries, but Altman believes better days lie ahead."The future is bright," he said.His task is finding the right coach to lead the Cavs into it.Altman plans to cast a "wide net" in his search for the fifth coach since 2013. He and his staff are paring down a list of potential candidates that will include former head coaches, current assistants — including some on playoff teams — as well as college coaches of both sexes. Head coaching experience is a plus, but not essential, and he's not limiting the search to candidates with whom he has a previous connection.Already, names are beginning to surface, including several assistants who have ties to the Cavs.Denver's Jordi Fernandez, Utah's Alex Jensen, Orlando's Steve Hetzel, Atlanta's Chris Jent, Portland's Nate Tibbetts and Dallas' Jamahl Mosley all spent time working for Cleveland. Altman intimated continuing the Cavs' rebuild with a person already familiar with the organization would be beneficial.Luke Walton could now be on Cleveland's radar after he parted ways with the Los Angeles Lakers, and Altman said he would be "open-minded" when asked about San Antonio's Becky Hammon, the league's first full-time female assistant.The timetable to find a coach? As long as it takes, Altman said."We want to make sure we get this right," he said. "We want to make sure we get to know these candidates really, really well and flush this thing out. Make sure it's the right fit for the front office, for our players, for the fan base. We want availability, grinding and all that kind of stuff. We want to make sure that's the right fit and we're the right fit for them, too."When Altman gets toward the final stages of the process, he said he may consult with Cavs players. Altman said his primary objective is landing a coach dedicated to development."It's important that we find a leader that's in it for the long haul, that really wants to be a part of Cleveland, our city and this team and help us grow every day," he said. "I think we have to be obsessed with this process of getting better and not so much results-driven — and that's the person I need to find."The Cavs finished with the league's second-worst record and are positioned to add a major piece in the draft. Obviously, winning the lottery and getting Duke's Zion Williamson would solve numerous problems. However, choosing first isn't everything, and Altman is confident the Cavs already have enough solid players to attract quality coaching candidates."We are going to draft a high-impact player, regardless of where the Ping-Pong balls land, and all those things together are a big part of us being an attractive destination," he said. "But I will say this: We're not going to sell our job. The person that is right for this job is going to really, really want to be here. That's going to be the person we hire."Altman again praised Larry Drew, who took over in October and kept the Cavs competitive until the end. Drew isn't part of the future, but Altman said he left a lasting imprint."The great thing that I can be proud of this year is our attitude," Altman said. "We had a great attitude. It wasn't heavy. It wasn't dark, even through all the losses. We had great attitude, great work ethic, and so I think we can build on that."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPascal Siakam confidently launches shots he may not have dared attempt in previous seasons. He makes plays during times of the game when he would have been sitting on the bench.The Toronto Raptors forward might be the leading candidate for the most improved player award and he'd like to win it. But he's already received recognition that means more to him.Fellow players have noticed how much work he's put in and how much it has paid off this season. The acknowledgement from All-Stars such as Paul George and Bradley Beal shows that Siakam's giant leap has caught the attention of more than just the media panel that votes for the NBA awards."I just enjoy sometimes after the games, guys coming up to me and showing respect for me. That's the most important thing," Siakam said. "Like, I don't care about the rest. I think when your peers respect your game and respect the fact that they've seen you work, I think that's more important."There's a lot for them to have noticed, including:— Siakam's scoring. It is up from 6.0 points per game through his first two seasons to 17.0 this season.— His 3-point shooting. That's jumped from 21.6 percent to 36.8 percent.A player who was feared almost entirely for his work around the basket now has to be accounted for even when he's away from it. Brooklyn coach Kenny Atkinson called Siakam an X-factor who now demands a much bigger part of the scouting report."It changes because he's shooting the ball better," Atkinson said. "I think at first you could ignore his shot. Now it's like you've got to respect him from 3 and I know he's worked on it extremely hard, so that changes it."You could be in the paint, wait for his drives. You still have to respect (that) but I think he keeps getting better and better."D'Angelo Russell, Atkinson's All-Star point guard, might be the other top candidate for most improved player after leading the Nets to a surprising playoff berth. Sacramento's De'Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield, Denver's Malik Beasley and the Clippers' Montrezl Harrell are some other players worthy of consideration.But of them, Siakam has the biggest role on the team with the best chance to be playing into June.The Raptors made major changes after they were swept out of the postseason by LeBron James and Cleveland in consecutive years. Dwane Casey was fired even after winning coach of the year honors, and All-Star DeMar DeRozan was dealt to San Antonio in the trade to bring in Kawhi Leonard.The Raptors have come back with 57 wins and the second-best record in the East, with Siakam's growth central to their success. He can play in a traditional big lineup alongside Leonard and center Marc Gasol, or in a smaller one if they go with Serge Ibaka in the middle.The athleticism was always there for the 6-foot-9 forward. But now it's only part of the package for a player who made one 3-pointer his entire rookie season in 2016-17 and now averages one per game, the easiest place to notice his improvement."I don't know who else is even really up for it, who the voting's between, all that stuff. I know that if anybody's done more than this kid, has improved more, has impacted the team more and continued to improve from even geez, 20 games ago," Raptors coach Nick Nurse said. "He just keeps taking another step forward, there has been no steps back."He's certainly deserving. If there's somebody else who is deserving, then sometimes that's the way it works. But he's had an unbelievable season."Soon it will be time for the Raptors to show how much they've improved along with him. They became postseason punching bags the last couple years who want to show they won't be pushed around any longer."We have a new group so it's going to be definitely tough and I think we're more focused on that," Siakam said. "Obviously we think about the playoffs, we're excited about it, can't wait for it. We just want to make sure we get the right chemistry and everything going so when that time comes, we'll be ready to perform."He got into only two playoff games two years ago, when the native of Cameroon was still learning the game. It was only five years earlier when he had come through the Basketball Without Borders camp in Africa, then headed to Texas for prep school and onto New Mexico State before becoming a late first-round pick.He's not sure if friends back home are aware of his success. But if he wins the Most Improved Player award, chances are they'll hear about it."I'm definitely not a personal-type guy where I care about personal accolades and stuff, but definitely a team-guy first," Siakam said. "Something like that, in terms of who I am and the person that I've become, and people that know my story and how I came up, that would mean a lot just because that's me. Like, that's literally who I am as a player and as a person."______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Golden State Warriors celebrated their final regular-season game in Oracle Arena with a third-quarter explosion Sunday night, producing a 131-104 win over the Los Angeles Clippers in Oakland, Calif., that clinched top seeding throughout the Western Conference playoffs.The win was Golden State's fifth in a row and 30th of the season at home. The Warriors' first-round opponent, which will be the eighth seed in the West, has yet to be determined. The playoffs begin next Saturday.The Clippers' third straight loss dropped them to 47-34 and closer to a first-round matchup with the Warriors. The Clippers are battling Oklahoma City (47-33) and San Antonio (47-34), both of which won Sunday, for the sixth, seventh and eighth playoff spots in the West.Curry finished with a game-high 27 points for the Warriors, who improved their all-time regular-season record at Oracle Arena to 1,166-770. Like the Warriors, all five Clippers starters scored in double figures, led by Landry Shamet with 17. All but two of Shamet's points came on 5-for-6 3-point shooting.Trail Blazers 115, Nuggets 108Damian Lillard scored 30 points, and Al-Farouq Aminu added a season-high 23 points and 11 rebounds as Portland rallied for a victory over visiting Denver.The Trail Blazers closed the game on a 17-3 run to register their ninth win in the last 11 games. CJ McCollum made his return to the Portland lineup after missing 10 games with a knee injury. McCollum collected nine points, six rebounds and six assists in 25 minutes.Gary Harris scored 18 points to lead Denver, which won the season series with Portland 3-1. The Nuggets played without center Nikola Jokic, forward Paul Millsap and guard Jamal Murray, all given the night off for rest. They need to win their final two games, or get one win and a Rockets loss in their finale at the Thunder, to secure the West's No. 2 seed.Bucks 115, Hawks 107Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 30 points with nine rebounds, and Khris Middleton added 21 as Milwaukee recorded its first 60-victory season since 1980-81 in beating visiting Atlanta.Antetokounmpo, who is now six points away from 2,000 for the second consecutive season, was back on the court for the Eastern Conference champions after missing Saturday's game against the Brooklyn Nets because of a sore left calf.Alex Len scored a career-high 33 points for the Hawks, who were playing without starters John Collins (ankle) and Trae Young (wrist). DeAndre' Bembry added 13 points for Atlanta, which already has been eliminated from playoff contention.Nets 108, Pacers 96D'Angelo Russell scored 20 points, and Brooklyn clinched its first playoff berth since 2015 by leading most of the way in a win over host Indiana.The Nets clinched at least the seventh seed after the Detroit Pistons lost to the Charlotte Hornets earlier Sunday, and could have secured the No. 6 seed if Orlando had lost its game at Boston later on Sunday. Russell shot 7-for-15 and made a 3-pointer for the 60th straight game.The Pacers lost for the ninth time in 12 games and officially are locked into the fifth seed. Even if Indiana and Boston finish tied, the Celtics own the head-to-head tiebreaker. Domantas Sabonis led Indiana with 17 points and Thaddeus Young -- who was a starting forward in 2015 for the Nets -- added 16.Magic 116, Celtics 108Orlando clinched its first postseason berth in seven years with a road win against Boston, ended the Magic's longest playoff drought in franchise historyTerrence Ross scored 14 of his 26 points in the fourth quarter, and Nikola Vucevic had 25 points and 12 rebounds for the Magic, who were perfect (22-for-22) from the free-throw line. The Magic are tied with Brooklyn for the sixth seed in the Eastern Conference with one game left in the regular season.Kyrie Irving led the Celtics with 23 points, and Al Horford added 18.Raptors 117, Heat 109Danny Green scored 21 points -- including seven in overtime -- as Toronto defeated visiting Miami, sweeping the four-game season series.Miami's playoff hopes were severely damaged by the loss. The Heat are now one game behind the Pistons -- and tied with the Hornets -- in the race for the eighth and final playoff spot in the East.Pascal Siakam added 23 points and grabbed 10 rebounds, and Norman Powell also had 23 points off the bench for the Raptors. Dwyane Wade scored 21 points for the Heat, who have lost four in a row.Hornets 104, Pistons 91Kemba Walker scored 31 points, Frank Kaminsky added a season-high 24 and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive in beating host Detroit for its third straight win, clinching a four-game sweep of the season series.The Hornets (38-42) moved into ninth place in the Eastern Conference playoff race and are one game behind the No. 8 Pistons (39-41). Charlotte holds the tiebreaker edge over both the Heat and the Pistons.Walker added eight rebounds and seven assists and the Hornets also got 17 points from Jeremy Lamb. Detroit has now lost four straight and seven of its last nine. Blake Griffin scored 16 but was hobbling much of the day with a knee injury.Rockets 149, Suns 113James Harden flirted with a triple-double, Clint Capela posted added 22 points and 13 rebounds, and Houston closed out its home schedule with a 36-point dismantling of Phoenix.The Rockets turned in their second consecutive blowout win on their home court to keep hold of the third seed in the Western Conference. Houston led 117-77 entering the fourth quarter against the short-handed Suns. The Rockets have won six straight, all by double digits by an average of 25.8 points per game.Harden posted 30 points on 10-for-14 shooting with 13 rebounds and nine assists as the Rockets set an NBA record with 27 3-pointers. The Suns, missing a half dozen regulars, have dropped eight of their last 10 games.Thunder 132, Timberwolves 126Paul George and Russell Westbrook each scored 27 points as Oklahoma City had to come from behind, scoring 37 fourth-quarter points, to win its third consecutive game by beating Minnesota in Minneapolis.Oklahoma City's first three-game winning streak since winning four in a row from Feb. 5-11 has kept the Thunder in contention for the sixth spot in the Western Conference.Westbrook also finished with 10 rebounds and 15 assists for his 136th career triple-double. Westbrook is just two behind Magic Johnson for second all-time in the category. Karl-Anthony Towns finished with 35 points, hitting 13 of 14 from the free-throw line, and Andrew Wiggins had 24 points.Spurs 112, Cavaliers 90LaMarcus Aldridge scored 18 points, including 16 in the first half to a big lead, as visiting San Antonio throttled Cleveland in the teams' penultimate game of the regular season.The Spurs' victory, their third in their past four games, allows them to continue to put pressure on Oklahoma City and the Los Angeles Clippers in the battle for the final three playoff seeds in the West.DeRozan, Davis Bertans and Patty Mills contributed 14 points apiece for the Spurs, while Forbes scored 13. Collin Sexton and Brandon Knight led the anemic Cavaliers' attack with 16 points each, while Ante Zizic added 14.Lakers 113, Jazz 109Kentavious Caldwell-Pope scored 18 of his 32 points in the fourth quarter to help Los Angeles hold off visiting Utah, whose chances of gaining home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs were damaged.The Jazz (49-31), who also saw their seven-game winning streak snapped, trail Portland by two games for fourth place in the West with two games left for each team.JaVale McGee had 22 points and eight rebounds, and Alex Caruso had 18 points and 11 assists for the Lakers. Rudy Gobert had 21 points and 10 rebounds to lead the Jazz. Donovan Mitchell scored 19 points but missed all 10 shots in the second half.Mavericks 129, Grizzlies 127 (OT)Reserve guard Devin Harris buried a tie-breaking 3-pointer with 1:26 to go in overtime, and Trey Burke scored a team-high 24 points to lead visiting Dallas past Memphis.Backup center Salah Mejri slammed home key dunks in the latter part of the fourth quarter, tipped home the tying bucket with 1.5 seconds in regulation and then opened overtime with seven consecutive points. He finished with 19 points off the bench on 7-of-12 shooting to go with nine rebounds.Starting for injured point guard Mike Conley, Delon Wright had a triple-double for the Grizzlies with 20 points, 12 assists and 13 rebounds. Justin Holiday scored a game-high 30 points, drilling six of his 11 3-point attempts.Pelicans 133, Kings 129Elfrid Payton had a double-double and made a 3-pointer that put visiting New Orleans ahead for good in a victory over Sacramento.The injury-plagued Pelicans used just eight players after choosing to rest forward Julius Randle, but all five starters had scored in double figures by the middle of the third quarter. Payton finished with 26 points and 14 assists, while Ian Clark made a career-high seven 3-pointers as he scored a season-high 31 points.Harrison Barnes scored 29 points, De'Aaron Fox had 24 points and 11 assists, and Marvin Bagley III had 19 points and 14 rebounds for the Kings (39-42), who are guaranteed a losing record for the 13th consecutive season.Knicks 113, Wizards 110Mario Hezonja scored 30 points and hit a 3-pointer with 44.8 seconds left that gave New York the lead for good in a win over visiting Washington.In his second start at point guard in place of injured Emmanuel Mudiay, Hezonja made 12 of 21 shots for the Knicks, who had lost 11 of their previous 12 against the Wizards. The Knicks (16-64) must win their final two games to avoid matching the worst record in franchise history, set in 2014-15.Jeff Green had 19 points in 16 minutes for Washington, which has lost three straight. Thomas Bryant added 17 points, and Bobby Portis contributed 11 points and 10 rebounds.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Kennard scored 27 points off the bench and the postseason-bound Detroit Pistons closed out their regular season finale by walloping the host New York Knicks 115-89 on Wednesday.The Pistons (41-41) qualified for the Eastern Conference playoffs for just the second time since the 2009-10 season. They were swept by Cleveland in the opening round of the 2015-16 playoffs.Detroit will be the No. 8 seed and face top-seeded Milwaukee in the first round.Kennard's point total was one shy of his career high. Reggie Jackson had 21 points and Andre Drummond supplied 20 points and 18 rebounds for Detroit. Wayne Ellington tossed in 12 points, all on 3-point makes.Heat 113, Nets 94Dwyane Wade ended his storied career with a triple-double of 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists as visiting Miami was dealt a loss to Brooklyn, which clinched sixth place in the Eastern Conference.The Nets honored Wade with a video tribute in pregame introductions by highlighting some of his notable shots against them over the course of a 16-year career while the text on the screen read "Thanks for the Memories."With longtime friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony sitting courtside, Wade recorded his fifth career triple-double in his 1,054th regular-season game since entering the league as the fifth overall pick out of Marquette in 2003.Spurs 105, Mavericks 94LaMarcus Aldridge poured in 34 points and totaled 16 rebounds to help propel San Antonio to a resounding win over visiting Dallas in the regular-season finale for both teams.It was also the final game in the 21-year career of Dallas forward Dirk Nowitzki, who led Dallas with 20 points and pulled down 10 rebounds in 31 minutes of play before leaving the court for the final time with 47 seconds remaining.The win was San Antonio's third straight and -- combined with Oklahoma City's win over Milwaukee -- earned the Spurs the seventh seed in the NBA playoffs, where they will face the Denver Nuggets. Dallas, playing the second game of an emotional home-road back-to-back, had a two-game winning streak snapped and they will miss the postseason for the third straight season.Trail Blazers 136, Kings 131Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a season-high 37 points to lift Portland to a come-from-behind victory over visiting Sacramento.Skal Labissiere added 29 points and 15 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who trailed by as many as 28 points in the first half.Jake Layman, Meyers Leonard and Gary Trent Jr. scored 19 points apiece for Portland (53-29), which gained the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference and will face No. 6 Oklahoma City (49-33) in the first round of the playoffs.Nuggets 99, Timberwolves 95Jamal Murray hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 31.5 seconds left, and host Denver scored the final 15 points of the game to beat Minnesota to earn the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference.Nikola Jokic finished with 29 points and 14 rebounds and Murray scored 17 for Denver. The Nuggets (54-28) will play the San Antonio Spurs in the first round of the playoffs.Andrew Wiggins scored 25 points, Gorgui Dieng had 18 points and 11 rebounds and Cameron Reynolds added 19 points off the bench for the short-handed Timberwolves (36-46).Clippers 143, Jazz 137 (OT)With their respective playoff spots locked, Los Angeles and Utah ended their regular seasons in overtime, where the Clippers won to end a three-game losing streak.Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead the Clippers. Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Lou Williams scored 15 off the bench.Utah rookie Grayson Allen scored a career-high 40 points and Georges Niang scored a career-best 24 off the bench.Thunder 127, Bucks 116Dennis Schroder scored 32 points to help Oklahoma City earn the No. 6 seed in the Western Conference with a win at Milwaukee.The Bucks, who had already sealed the top seed in the Eastern Conference coming into the game, sat three starters -- Giannis Antetokounmpo, Eric Bledsoe and Brook Lopez -- to rest them for the playoffs.Milwaukee (60-22) will start the playoffs against the eighth-seeded Detroit Pistons (41-41). The Thunder (49-33) will open the playoffs against the third-seeded Portland Trail Blazers (53-29).Pacers 135, Hawks 134Edmond Sumner made three free throws with 0.3 seconds remaining to lift Indiana to a road win over Atlanta in the final regular-season game for both teams.Atlanta finished the season with a 29-53 record while Indiana (48-34) heads into the playoffs winners of only four of its last 13 games.The fifth-place Pacers will oppose the fourth-place Boston Celtics (49-33) in the first round of the Eastern Conference postseason.Magic 122, Hornets 114Terrence Ross came off the bench to score a season-high 35 points, and playoff-bound Orlando ended Charlotte's season.Ross scored 19 of his points in the first half, when the Magic led by as many as 13. He finished 12 of 19 from the field and 6 of 10 from 3-point range. Ross' performance overshadowed a 43-point explosion by Charlotte's Kemba Walker in the defeat.The Magic (42-40) remained the No. 7 seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs with the victory, and will face second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs.Grizzlies 132, Warriors 117Memphis dizzied visiting Golden State in the regular-season finale for both teams, parlaying a remarkable 86-point first half into a shocking win.The loss had no bearing on the playoff seeding for the Warriors (57-25). The two-time defending champions enter the postseason as the top seed in the Western Conference and they will open the playoffs against the No. 8 seed, the Los Angeles Clippers, who defeated the Utah Jazz, 143-137, in overtime Wednesday.The win allowed the Grizzlies (33-49) to avoid what would have been a second straight season of at least 50 losses. Rookie Jevon Carter scored 19 of his career-high 32 points in the first half, when the Grizzlies ran off to an 86-68 lead.76ers 125, Bulls 109Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points and Boban Marjanovic added 18 to lift host Philadelphia over Chicago.T.J. McConnell tied his career-high with 18, Zhaire Smith contributed 17 and Greg Monroe had 14 for the Sixers, who completed their regular season with a 51-31 record and the No. 3 playoff seed in the Eastern Conference. The Sixers finished 31-10 at home.The Sixers were extremely short-handed as numerous key players were held out for precautionary reasons as the playoffs are about to begin. All-Star center Joel Embiid, All-Star guard Ben Simmons, guard JJ Redick, forward Jimmy Butler and forward Tobias Harris were all held out.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersJamal Murray scored 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter, and the host Denver Nuggets rallied from down 19 to beat the San Antonio Spurs 114-105 in Game 2 of their Western Conference first-round playoff series on Tuesday night.Nikola Jokic had 21 points, 13 rebounds and eight assists, Gary Harris scored 23 points, and Paul Millsap had 20 points for Denver. The Nuggets tied the series 1-1 and ended San Antonio's seven-game playoff winning streak in Denver.DeMar DeRozan scored 31 points and LaMarcus Aldridge had 24 points for the Spurs.Murray, who missed his first eight shots, hit five consecutive shots in the fourth quarter, including two straight and a pair of free throws that gave Denver a 99-97 lead, its first advantage since 17-16. The Nuggets were ahead by three before Murray drained two 3-pointers to make it 110-101.Raptors 111, Magic 82Kawhi Leonard scored 37 points on 15-for-22 shooting from the field, and Toronto defeated visiting Orlando to even its first-round Eastern Conference playoff series at one game apiece.Pascal Siakam added 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who never trailed. Kyle Lowry contributed 22 points and seven assists for Toronto while Serge Ibaka chipped in with 13 points and eight rebounds off the bench.Aaron Gordon scored 20 points for the Magic, who split the regular-season series 2-2 with the Raptors. Terrence Ross added 15 points for Orlando while Evan Fournier scored 10 points.Trail Blazers 114, Thunder 94CJ McCollum and Damian Lillard combined for 62 points as Portland swept to a victory over visiting Oklahoma City.McCollum scored 33 points and Lillard added 29 as the Trail Blazers seized a 2-0 lead in the first-round Western Conference playoff series. Maurice Harkless chipped in 14 points and nine rebounds for Portland, which led by as many as 22 points in the fourth quarter.Paul George tallied 27 points with eight rebounds for the Thunder, who led by as many as 10 points in the first half. Russell Westbrook collected 14 points, 11 assists and nine boards for Oklahoma City but shot only 5 of 20 from the field.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBen Simmons scored a playoff-career-high 31 points and handed out nine assists to lead the visiting Philadelphia 76ers past the Brooklyn Nets 131-115 on Thursday in New York for a 2-1 lead in an Eastern Conference opening-round playoff series.Simmons, whose wayward shooting was the subject of a "Missing" poster outside of Barclays Center pregame, made 11 of 13 attempts from the field and 9 of 11 from the foul line.Tobias Harris also scored a playoff-career-high, adding 29 points to go along with 16 rebounds, and JJ Redick added 26 points for Philadelphia.Sixers center Joel Embiid was scratched before the game due to left knee soreness. Greg Monroe, who signed late in the regular season, received the emergency start in place of Embiid and contributed nine points and 13 boards.Warriors 132, Clippers 105Kevin Durant exploded for 38 points, and Golden State never let up after building an early lead, cruising to a win at Los Angeles to take a 2-1 edge in their Western Conference first-round playoff series.The Warriors, who blew a 31-point, second-half lead in Game 3, ran up 41 first-quarter points, building as much as a 19-point advantage in the first 12 minutes.Stephen Curry, who battled foul trouble most of the night, complemented Durant with 21 points in 20 minutes for the Warriors. Ivica Zubac had a team-high 18 points to go with a game-high 15 rebounds for the Clippers.Spurs 118, Nuggets 108Derrick White poured in a career-high 36 points on 15-of-21 shooting to lift San Antonio to a win over visiting Denver in Game 3 of a Western Conference first-round playoff series.San Antonio, the seventh seed in the West, grabbed a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven series. The Spurs led just 89-87 in the first minute of the fourth quarter before they pulled away, forging a 19-4 run that was capped by a White 3-pointer with 5:57 left that gave San Antonio a 108-91 advantage.DeMar DeRozan added 25 points, 21 of those in the second half, while LaMarcus Aldridge contributed 18 points and 11 rebounds for the Spurs. Nikola Jokic paced Denver with 22 points, and Malik Beasley added 20.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGiannis Antetokounmpo racked up 24 points, 17 rebounds and four assists in only 23 minutes as the top-seeded Milwaukee Bucks overwhelmed the visiting Detroit Pistons 121-86 in their Eastern Conference playoff opener on Sunday.George Hill had 16 points off the bench for the Bucks, who led by 27 at halftime. Eric Bledsoe scored 15 points, Brook Lopez and Khris Middleton had 14 apiece, and Sterling Brown added 11 along with a team-high seven assists.Pistons center Andre Drummond was ejected with 4:07 remaining in the third quarter for shoving Antetokounmpo to the floor. The two-handed push occurred after Antetokounmpo grabbed an offensive rebound. Drummond finished with 12 points and 12 rebounds.Luke Kennard's 21 points off the bench topped Detroit, which played without All-Star forward Blake Griffin. He was sidelined by a sore left knee, which also kept him out of four of the last seven regular-season games. The Bucks were without guards Malcolm Brogdon (foot) and Tony Snell (ankle).Trail Blazers 104, Thunder 99Damian Lillard scored 30 points as Portland held off visiting Oklahoma City to win the opener of their first-round playoff series.CJ McCollum added 24 points, and Enes Kanter contributed 20 points and 18 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who led by as many as 19 points in the first half. The lead shrunk to as few as three points in the fourth quarter, but Oklahoma City never had possession with a chance to tie.Paul George collected 26 points and 10 rebounds, and Russell Westbrook compiled 24 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists for the Thunder, who made only 5 of 33 3-point attempts in the game.Celtics 84, Pacers 74Boston held visiting Indiana without a field goal for the first 8 1/2 minutes of the second half, rallying from a halftime deficit for a victory in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.After failing to make even one-third of their shots in the first half while falling behind 45-38, the fourth-seeded Celtics became a defensive force in the third quarter. The Pacers, seeded fifth in the East, missed their first seven shots of the second half and mixed in three turnovers as their seven-point lead turned into a 47-45 deficit.Kyrie Irving and Marcus Morris scored 20 points apiece for Boston, which won handily despite shooting just 36.4 percent. Cory Joseph led Indiana with 14 points, and Bojan Bogdanovic had 12, as the Pacers shot 33.3 percent for the game overall.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGiannis Antetokounmpo racked up 24 points, 17 rebounds and four assists in only 23 minutes as the top-seeded Milwaukee Bucks overwhelmed the visiting Detroit Pistons 121-86 in their Eastern Conference playoff opener on Sunday.George Hill had 16 points off the bench for the Bucks, who led by 27 at halftime. Eric Bledsoe scored 15 points, Brook Lopez and Khris Middleton had 14 apiece, and Sterling Brown added 11 along with a team-high seven assists.Pistons center Andre Drummond was ejected with 4:07 remaining in the third quarter for shoving Antetokounmpo to the floor. The two-handed push occurred after Antetokounmpo grabbed an offensive rebound. Drummond finished with 12 points and 12 rebounds.Luke Kennard's 21 points off the bench topped Detroit, which played without All-Star forward Blake Griffin. He was sidelined by a sore left knee, which also kept him out of four of the last seven regular-season games. The Bucks were without guards Malcolm Brogdon (foot) and Tony Snell (ankle).Rockets 122, Jazz 90James Harden and Clint Capela posted double-doubles, and Houston rolled to a victory in Game 1 of its first-round series with visiting Utah.Harden paired 29 points with 10 assists and finished two rebounds shy of a triple-double to fuel the Rockets to a 1-0 series lead. Capela added 16 points and 12 rebounds while grappling with Jazz center Rudy Gobert (22 points, 12 rebounds).Houston made headway by holding its own on the glass and defending with vigor, limiting Utah guard Donovan Mitchell to 19 points on 7-of-18 shooting and the Jazz to 39.0 percent shooting. Utah finished just 7-for-27 on 3-pointers and committed 19 turnovers.Trail Blazers 104, Thunder 99Damian Lillard scored 30 points as Portland held off visiting Oklahoma City to win the opener of their first-round playoff series.CJ McCollum added 24 points, and Enes Kanter contributed 20 points and 18 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who led by as many as 19 points in the first half. The lead shrunk to as few as three points in the fourth quarter, but Oklahoma City never had possession with a chance to tie.Paul George collected 26 points and 10 rebounds, and Russell Westbrook compiled 24 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists for the Thunder, who made only 5 of 33 3-point attempts in the game.Celtics 84, Pacers 74Boston held visiting Indiana without a field goal for the first 8 1/2 minutes of the second half, rallying from a halftime deficit for a victory in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.After failing to make even one-third of their shots in the first half while falling behind 45-38, the fourth-seeded Celtics became a defensive force in the third quarter. The Pacers, seeded fifth in the East, missed their first seven shots of the second half and mixed in three turnovers as their seven-point lead turned into a 47-45 deficit.Kyrie Irving and Marcus Morris scored 20 points apiece for Boston, which won handily despite shooting just 36.4 percent. Cory Joseph led Indiana with 14 points, and Bojan Bogdanovic had 12, as the Pacers shot 33.3 percent for the game overall.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday. He compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.--The Lakers, meanwhile, received permission to discuss their opening for head coach with Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams, ESPN reported, citing league sources.The Lakers are focusing on Williams and former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue, and general manager Rob Pelinka plans to speak with each candidate in the near future, league sources told ESPN.After spending the previous two years in the San Antonio Spurs' front office following the death of his wife Ingrid in 2016, Williams got back into coaching as Brett Brown's top assistant with the 76ers.--The 76ers fined veteran center Amir Johnson an undisclosed amount for showing teammate Joel Embiid his cell phone on the bench late in a 111-102 loss to the Brooklyn Nets in Game 1 of their playoff series.TV cameras caught Johnson on the bench in the fourth quarter, when the 76ers were 16 points down and he was scrolling through his phone. After showing Embiid something on his phone, Johnson put it into the pocket of his warm-ups."I apologize for having my phone on the bench in today's game," Johnson said in a statement released hours after the game by the 76ers. "I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions. I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."--Milwaukee Bucks forward Nikola Mirotic is expected to return from a thumb injury to play in Game 1 of the first-round series against the Detroit Pistons on Sunday.Mirotic missed the final 11 games of the regular season after fracturing his left thumb during a March 19 game against the Los Angeles Lakers.Mirotic fully participated in Friday's practice and took part in Saturday's non-contact practice. He had his thumb taped during both workouts.--The Washington Wizards announced they will not make a qualifying offer to free agent forward Devin Robinson after he was apparently arrested late Friday."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend a qualifying offer to him for the 2019-20 season," it read.According to Washington Post reporter Candace Buckner, who covers the Wizards, Robinson was involved in an altercation with Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills at a nightclub.--Toronto Raptors forward OG Anunoby could be sidelined until the Eastern Conference finals, should the team make it that far, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.Anunoby underwent an emergency appendectomy on Thursday.The second-year player, who is a key reserve for the Raptors, scored 7.0 points per game this season with an average of 2.9 rebounds. He played in 67 games this season, starting six of them, a year after he started 62 games as a rookie from Indiana.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — The longest active streak of missing the NBA playoffs belongs to Sacramento, where general manager Vlade Divac has been trying to return the Kings to the league's elite over the last four seasons.Back when the slick-passing Serbian big man was in the paint, the Kings had quite the run. For his impact on the NBA as one of the pioneering Eastern Europeans, Divac was announced Saturday as one of the 12 honorees in the 2019 class of the Basketball Hall of Fame."We created something special there, the first day of training camp that led us," said Divac, who played for Sacramento from 1998-2004, with a peak in 2002 when the Kings lost to the Los Angeles Lakers in overtime of Game 7 of the Western Conference finals. "For six years, we were the most exciting team in the league and really played basketball the right way."The class will be enshrined at the Hall of Fame in Springfield, Massachusetts, on Sept. 6. Selected this year with Divac were NBA players Carl Braun, Chuck Cooper, Bobby Jones, Sidney Moncrief, Jack Sikma and Paul Westphal, NBA coach Bill Fitch, NBA contributor Al Attles, WNBA player Teresa Weatherspoon, the 1957-59 teams from Tennessee A&I and the Wayland Baptist University program.Divac, who was elected directly by the international committee, played 16 years in the NBA, including eight with the Lakers. The 7-foot-1 Divac had his jersey retired by the Kings after helping them start a streak of eight straight postseason appearances upon his arrival. They never advanced past the conference finals, a surge that coincided with the Lakers dynasty of Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal.One of Divac's fellow starters on those Kings teams was Chris Webber, who wasn't included in the class. Now an analyst for CBS Sports, Webber quickly sent Divac a congratulatory message after the announcement in Minneapolis at the Final Four."For the last five or six days when I found out I was going to be there, I was only hoping that he was going to be next me," Divac said. "I'm sure it's going to happen down the road, but it would be awesome if he was right next to me."Moncrief and Sikma, who were elected by the North American committee, were teammates with the Milwaukee Bucks from 1986-89. The seven-time All-Star Sikma, who won an NBA title in his second season with the Seattle SuperSonics, set a record with the Bucks in 1988 as the only center in history to lead the league in free-throw percentage at 92.2. Sikma is now a consultant with the Toronto Raptors, who are in second place in the Eastern Conference behind the resurgent Bucks."My hope is we get in the conference finals and we're facing the Bucks, and then I'll kind of keep my thoughts to myself a little bit," Sikma said, smiling.Moncrief was a five-time All-Star and two-time NBA Defensive Player of the Year in the mid-1980s for the Bucks, who lost in the Eastern Conference finals three times during his career. Moncrief also reached the Final Four in his final season at Arkansas, 1978-79, under coach Eddie Sutton, for whom he gave credit for instilling in him the fundamentals that carried him to professional success."You'd take a four-hour practice: three hours on defense. Seriously," Moncrief said. "And they wonder why I couldn't shoot when I got to the NBA! I didn't shoot. I just played defense."Weatherspoon, who was elected by the women's committee, was a five-time WNBA All-Star for the New York Liberty who was the first in the league to reach 1,000 points and 1,000 assists. She led Louisiana Tech to an NCAA championship in 1988.Jones and Westphal were the other players elected by the North American committee. Jones was an eight-time NBA All-Defensive first team pick and four-time All-Star with the Philadelphia 76ers, winning a title with them in 1983. Westphal was a five-time All-Star who won a championship with the Boston Celtics in 1974.Fitch coached in the NBA for 255 seasons, leading the Celtics to a title in 1981 and still holding the franchise's best winning percentage at .738. The other election by the North American committee was the Tennessee A&I teams that won NAIA championships in 1957, 1958 and 1959. The program now known as Tennessee State was the first to win three straight titles in any college division.Attles was a direct election by the contributor committee. He played for the Philadelphia Warriors from 1960-71 and later was a coach, executive and ambassador for the organization. Cooper, who died in 1984, was directly elected by the early African American pioneers committee. He was an All-American at Duquesne in 1950 and the first African American player drafted by an NBA team. Braun, directly elected by the veterans committee, died in 2010. He was a five-time NBA All-Star who won a title with the Boston Celtics in 1962.Wayland Baptist, elected directly by the women's veterans committee, was among the first women's programs to award scholarships. Under the guidance of coach Harley Redin, the small school in West Texas won 131 straight games from 1953-58 and 10 national championships overall.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — The New York Knicks are turning to Patrick Ewing in hopes of lottery luck.Ewing, the prize when the Knicks won the first NBA draft lottery in 1985, will represent the team on stage when it attempts a turnaround by landing the No. 1 pick on May 14 in Chicago.The Knicks announced Saturday that the Georgetown coach would fill the role Dave DeBusschere had when the Knicks selected Ewing. He went on to a Hall of Fame career with the Knicks, who have been one of the NBA's least successful teams since he retired.They had the NBA's worst record this season at 17-65, matching the worst in franchise history, and have a 14% chance of winning the lottery.Knicks President Steve Mills says "we're proud to have one of the all-time Knicks greats sit on the dais on behalf of the team, the city and the fans."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNASHVILLE, Tenn. — Jerry Stackhouse had a couple interviews already lined up for possible NBA head coaching jobs. He says he decided to take a college job because of his relationship with Vanderbilt's new athletic director and the opportunity to turnaround the Commodores men's program.Stackhouse said during a news conference on Monday that he loves is teaching and coaching basketball, and he wants to bring back Memorial magic to the oldest arena in the Southeastern Conference.His lone head coaching experience is two years in the G League where he got to know a fellow North Carolina graduate in Malcolm Turner, who was the league's president. Turner took over as athletic director at Vanderbilt on Feb. 1.Stackhouse has been an assistant with the NBA's Memphis Grizzlies this season, and the 18-year NBA veteran also was an assistant in Toronto.Vanderbilt is coming off the worst season ever at 9-23, finishing the season on a 20-game skid.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTiger Woods' win at the Masters is still a hot topic. PodcastOne Sports Now hosts Jim Litke and Tim Dahlberg look back at the memorable moment that transcended the sports world. Litke and Dahlberg also discuss what Woods may do next for his career and the sport with AP Golf Writer Doug Ferguson, who was honored last week for receiving the PGA Lifetime Achievement Award in Journalism.Guest host Larry Lage catches up with Mike Tirico of NBC Sports after he filled in as an announcer at the Masters for Westwood One Radio. Jemele Hill, a staff writer for The Atlantic and host of "Jemele Hill is Unbothered," shares her thoughts on Woods' comeback and the essay Kyle Korver of the Utah Jazz recently wrote about white privilege for The Players' Tribune.ESPN analyst Chauncey Billups wraps up the weekly podcast, talking about his admiration for Woods. The 2004 NBA champion also breaks down the NBA playoffs, recalls being part of the infamous brawl involving the Detroit Pistons, Indiana Pacers and fans nearly 15 years ago and says he wants to be an NBA general manager.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersKentucky standout sophomore PJ Washington declared for the NBA draft on Tuesday and will hire an agent, the school announced."This place has been my home for two years and it's hard for me to put in words how much I've grown in my time at Kentucky. The staff challenged me from day one to become the best version of myself and to work hard to become one of the best players in college basketball. I feel like I've done that," Washington said in a statement posted on the Wildcats' website.The 6-foot-8 forward ends his career with 932 points, 476 rebounds, 120 assists and 74 blocks. He led the Wildcats in scoring (15.2) and rebounding (7.5) in the 2018-19 season. He also posted nine double-doubles and shot 52.2 percent from the floor, including 42.3 percent from the 3-point line.Washington earned first-team All-SEC and third-team All-America honors. He is projected to be a mid-first-round pick by ESPN.--Two-time SEC Player of the Year Grant Williams said he is entering the NBA draft but will remain open to returning to school for his senior season."My whole thing is I want to go into the process with an open mind and understand what I need to improve on and what I need to get better at, while also understanding I have to make the most informed decision possible," said Williams, who has until May 29 to make up his mind. "If it is the right time, then it is the right time."The 6-foot-7 Williams averaged 18.8 points and 7.5 rebounds this season while earning first-team All-America honors.-Michigan forward Ignas Brazdeikis, the 2018-19 Big Ten Freshman of the Year, and teammates Charles Matthews and Jordan Poole announced they will declare for the draft."As long as I can remember, I've wanted to be an NBA player -- not just an NBA player, but an NBA All-Star," said the 6-foot-7 Brazdeikis, a Canadian who averaged 14.8 points and 5.4 boards in 37 starts with the Wolverines.Matthews, a junior guard, averaged 12.2 points and 5.0 rebounds this season, while Poole, a sophomore guard, averaged 12.8 points.--St. John's junior guard Justin Simon declared for the draft and his decision was announced by RZA Sports, the entity that will represent him.Simon averaged 10.4 points and posted 50 steals while earning Big East Defensive Player of the Year honors.--Israel's Yovel Zoosman has submitted paperwork to the league office to become eligible for the draft, according to ESPN.Ranked No. 58 in the ESPN Top 100, the 20-year-old wing player was named MVP of the FIBA U20 European Championship last July after leading the Israeli national team to the championship in Germany.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired Thursday after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said. "On behalf of the entire Kings organization, I want to thank Dave for his contributions to our team and I wish him all the best."Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs.The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final spot.Joerger, 45, has six years of NBA head coaching experience, the first three with Memphis (2013-16) and the next three in Sacramento. His overall coaching record is 245-247 and 98-148 with the Kings.His dismissal came on the same day that Divac and the Kings agreed to a four-year contract through the 2022-23 season, according to The Athletic.Divac, who became GM in early 2015, has built a nucleus of promising young players that includes Marvin Bagley III, Buddy Hield, De'Aaron Fox and Bogdan Bogdanovic.Divac, 51, played 16 seasons in the NBA for the Kings, Los Angeles Lakers and Charlotte Hornets. He will be enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in September.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersKentucky freshman guard Tyler Herro on Friday announced his intention to declare for the NBA draft but left his options open for a return to the school.Herro said he will work with an agent, within new eligibility rules, in order to get feedback from teams on where he might land in the draft. If his draft stock is not as high as he had hoped, he said he will return to the Kentucky program."If the evaluations tell me I need to elevate my game further, I would be thrilled to return to Kentucky and help this team compete for a championship," Herro said on Twitter. "Whatever happens over the next couple of months, I want to thank (Kentucky fans) for (their) support this season and throughout this process."Herro averaged 14.0 points in the 2018-19 season, second on the Wildcats. He led the team with 60 made 3-pointers, while shooting 93.5 percent from the free throw line, a Kentucky single-season record. He led the Wildcats with 32.6 minutes per game.-- Duke freshman Cam Reddish became the team's second young star to declare for the draft, joining RJ Barrett. Reddish averaged 13.5 points, 3.7 rebounds and 1.9 assists in 36 games for Duke (32-6)."This season was epic, and I am so thankful to have had Duke as a part of the foundation that prepared me to play at the next level. Never forget - I am a Blue Devil for life. Proud to announce that I will be entering the 2019 NBA Draft," the 6-foot-8 forward posted on Instagram.Meanwhile, Blue Devils superstar Zion Williamson, the likely top overall pick, has yet to make an official decision.-- Big East Conference Player of the Year Markus Howard announced he is returning to Marquette for his senior season.Howard indicated there is more to accomplish in his announcement made on Twitter. "Unfinished Business," he wrote. "Looking forward to next season with this team."Howard averaged 25.0 points, 3.9 rebounds and 3.9 assists for Marquette last season. Among his many highlights was scoring a Big East record 53 points in an overtime victory over Creighton on Jan. 9.-- Kansas guard Devon Dotson said he has filed the paperwork to enter the draft but could return to the Jayhawks. He made his announcement on Twitter."After careful consideration with my family and coaches, I have decided to test the waters and enter into the 2019 NBA draft process. I feel it's a great opportunity to obtain feedback from NBA personnel to make fully informed decisions regarding my basketball future. Based on new rules, I will hire an agent and move forward while retaining my complete college eligibility."In his one season at Kansas, Dotson averaged 12.3 points, 3.7 rebounds and 3.5 assists per game.-- USC guard Kevin Porter Jr. hired an agent and said he will declare for the upcoming draft after he averaged 9.5 points and 4.0 rebounds per game for the Trojans.The 6-foot-6 Porter missed two months this season with a thigh injury. Porter, a product of Rainier Beach High School in South Seattle, Wash., will not turn 19 until May 4.--Florida freshman point guard Andrew Nembhard said he intends to explore his NBA potential by entering his name in the draft.The Canadian played in 36 games for the Gators, all starts, and averaged 8.0 points, 2.9 rebounds and 5.4 assists per game.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
