AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaDENVER — The Denver Nuggets’ worst loss of the season was less than 48 hours old when Tim Connelly, the team’s president of basketball operations, found himself courtside before a game against the Chicago Bulls assessing some lessons of the defeat.“A loss is never a positive,” Connelly said, “but we have to be realistic about where we stand. We’ve done nothing, and that team has done everything several times over.”He was referring to the Golden State Warriors, a superstar collective that has demolished its share of opponents in recent years. But what the Warriors did to the Nuggets one night last week was particularly gruesome, in part because Denver had entered the game with a slim lead over Golden State in the N.B.A.’s Western Conference standings.But then, on Jan. 15, in front of a briefly enthusiastic crowd here, the Warriors scored 51 points in the first quarter and sailed to a 142-111 victory that sent a message to everyone on the opposing bench, inside the building and across the league: We are not going anywhere.It was, for one night at least, illustrative of the gulf that still exists between the Warriors and the rest of the N.B.A. While Golden State’s dominance had led many to despair, the Nuggets entered the game ahead in the standings and hopeful that they were bridging the gap. They came out of it understanding that there is still work to be done.“We got a little comfortable,” Nuggets forward Paul Millsap said. “It was a humbling experience for us.”Still, these are heady times for the Nuggets. They are a colorful crew led by Nikola Jokic, a 23-year-old center from Serbia and former second-round pick who facilitates the offense from the high post. In a league full of chiseled gods, Jokic has the dimensions of a melting iceberg. But at 7 feet and 250 pounds, he is a gifted passer and scorer, and he appears bound for his first All-Star Game.His background — unsung prospect, semi-overlooked — is representative of the roster as a whole. Just one player in the team’s regular rotation, the 21-year-old point guard Jamal Murray, was a top-10 lottery pick.Consider Torrey Craig, a 28-year-old forward who has become a full-time starter. Craig went undrafted out of South Carolina Upstate and was plying his trade for the Gold Coast Rollers of the Queensland Basketball League, a semipro circuit in Australia, before he signed a two-way deal with the Nuggets in 2017.“It makes us all dogs,” the shooting guard Malik Beasley said, “because we’ve been underrated our whole lives.”Millsap, 33 and a former second-round pick himself, sees similarities between the Nuggets and one of his former teams, the Atlanta Hawks, a team with little star power that still finished with the best record in the East in 2015.“Egoless guys,” Millsap said. “Guys who don’t care about getting the credit. Guys who go out there and play the game the right way, and I think that’s where these two teams are very similar. I do think this team is a lot more talented than that team. But that team used every inch of talent and every inch of ability to get things done.”Left unsaid: The Nuggets are not using every inch of their talent — not yet, anyway. In the jargon of the game, they have untapped potential, and this is understandable. The Nuggets are as inexperienced as they are precocious. Seven of the team’s top 11 players right now are 24 or younger, and that does not even include Michael Porter Jr., a 20-year-old forward and the 14th pick of the 2018 draft who is not expected to play this season after undergoing back surgery.Coach Michael Malone has consistently praised his players’ work ethic — effort, he said, is not a problem — but he does want them to be more diligent about their mental preparation.“Know who the hell you’re guarding,” Malone said, adding: “I think the guys on our roster — most teams probably have this issue, where they show up to the game, like, ‘Who are we playing tonight?’ And they haven’t done their work, which to me is like a cardinal sin. So we have to do a better job of understanding: Who am I playing? What are his tendencies? And how can I take those away?”In the locker room before the Bulls game, Malone reiterated how much work his staff puts into scouting reports before asking his players what they planned to offer that night in return. Jokic, Malone later recalled, told him he would be aggressive. Murray said he would play hard. As far as pregame chalk talks go, it was boilerplate stuff. But the conversation had added import given the events of the week.“This is part of our journey,” Malone said.Malone got a keener sense of that process from 2011 to 2013, as an assistant with the Warriors under Mark Jackson when Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson were young players learning how to be pros. The Warriors went 23-43 in a lockout-shortened season. But by the 2012-13 season, Curry and Thompson were forming winning habits. Malone recalled a seven-game road trip when the Warriors went 6-1, with their only loss coming against the Orlando Magic after the team spent an extra night in Miami (and perhaps that was no coincidence). But the trip was otherwise an unqualified success.“I think that’s when we, as a team and as an organization said, ‘Man, we have a chance to be pretty good,’ ” he said.The Nuggets have had moments like that this season — beating the Raptors in Toronto on Dec. 3 was a big deal — but they still have a lot of work ahead, Malone said.“We’re a young team that is trying to become a playoff team, and once you become a playoff team, you hope to become a championship team,” Malone said. “You can’t skip steps.”Since Malone was hired by the Nuggets in 2015, they have improved each season, from 33 wins in 2015-16, to 40 wins in 2016-17, to 46 wins last season, when they narrowly missed the playoffs. Malone signed a two-year extension over the summer, and the Nuggets are now on a pace to win 56 games. Their last playoff appearance came in 2013.No less an eminence than Kevin Durant, who, to be fair, joined the Warriors a year after they had won their first championship of the Curry/Thompson era, praised the Nuggets organization.“Continuity,” Durant said. “You don’t fire your coach after a losing season. You’re patient with him. You’re patient with your young players. You let them make mistakes, let them grow.”In the wake of Denver’s loss to the Warriors last week, Malone was pleased to see a renewed commitment to defense in wins over the Bulls and the Cleveland Cavaliers. It was already clear that the team’s loss to Golden State had been something of a formative experience.“It was probably the best thing that could have happened to us,” Millsap said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDENVER — There was a time not long ago that basketball success in the Rocky Mountains was measured by the Denver Nuggets’ ability to persuade a free agent of Dwyane Wade’s stature to meet team brass in New York and let the Nuggets offer him millions.In the summer of 2016, only one season into the career of Nikola Jokic and with few hints to that point that the Nuggets already had a cornerstone player, just getting the opportunity to pitch Wade face-to-face was widely hailed as a triumph for this franchise.What went unrevealed that off-season was that Denver also made a futile run at Wade’s longtime rival, Dirk Nowitzki of the Dallas Mavericks. Nowitzki had no interest in even entertaining the idea of leaving the only team he had ever known, but that was the Nuggets in the embryonic stages of Jokic’s development — straining to persuade some of the game’s biggest names to take them seriously.Three years later, Jokic is a certifiable All-Star and his team of upstarts from the Mile High City found an entertaining way on Tuesday night to win some leaguewide notice. Seemingly headed for a second consecutive playoff defeat to the San Antonio Spurs on its home floor, Denver rode a remarkable fourth-quarter resurrection from the third-year guard Jamal Murray to rally to a 114-105 victory over the Spurs that did far more than even this Western Conference first-round series at one game apiece.“Definitely saved the season,” Paul Millsap, Denver’s veteran forward, said in a quiet moment at his locker. “To go down, 0-2, against the San Antonio Spurs, going into their place, it’s a massacre waiting to happen.”Millsap’s candor conveyed a good chunk of the significance attached to this win, but not all of it. Murray’s eruption for 21 of his 24 points in the final period — on 8-for-9 shooting after he stood at 0-for-8 through three quarters — not only gave the hosts hope of making this an actual series but also spared them some real embarrassment and introspection.After five consecutive seasons out of the playoffs, Denver unexpectedly won 54 games this season to vault to No. 2 in the West. The Nuggets were nonetheless a trendy pick to suffer a first-round upset against the San Antonio masters of execution and their coaching maestro, Gregg Popovich, which would naturally render Denver’s regular-season accomplishments rather hollow.“Frauds” was the popular word being tossed around on N.B.A. Twitter after the Nuggets fell behind by 19 points — twice — in a must-win game. Booing broke out at Pepsi Center on multiple occasions in just Denver’s second home playoff game since 2013, with both Jokic and Nuggets Coach Michael Malone telling reporters afterward that the fans were too hard on Will Barton when they hissed at his 1-for-10 shooting.“When they’re going through a tough time, they could use some love,” Malone said of his players, who comprise the league’s youngest playoff roster.Fortunately for Barton and the rest of the Nuggets, it was all love in the fourth quarter, thanks largely to Murray, who shot 8-for-24 in Game 1 — including a wide-open elbow jumper he clanked in crunchtime that clearly haunted the Canadian guard well into Game 2.During one key timeout, Malone reminded his players “what the Clippers did” Monday night, when they rallied out of a 31-point deficit in the second half at Golden State to register the largest playoff comeback in N.B.A. history. The inspiration finally hit Murray in the fourth when, without warning, he drained his first eight shots.In support of Murray, Jokic rang up 21 points, 13 rebounds and 8 assists in a bid for a second consecutive triple-double, which would suggest that the Serbian big man is coping quite well with his first turn under a playoff microscope. Gary Harris and Millsap added 23 and 20 points, to give Denver four starters in the 20s.“We gave up 38 points in the fourth quarter,” said a seething Popovich. “End of story.”The collapse was even worse than Popovich realized. The Spurs actually allowed 39 points in the quarter — and San Antonio’s All-Star forward, LaMarcus Aldridge, could be subjected to some league discipline that affects his status for Thursday night’s Game 3 judging by video footage in circulation that appears to show Aldridge landing a below-the-belt shot on Harris.Not that the Nuggets, after days of hearing incessantly about how inexperienced they are, can feel any sort of comfort yet. They’ve lost 13 consecutive games in San Antonio dating to 2012. Denver is also 0-11, as a franchise, in best-of-seven series after losing Game 1.“I think the cynicism is fair,” Nuggets General Manager Tim Connelly said after the victory, acknowledging that he was well aware of the noise about his team.Yet Connelly pointed out that as fluky as skeptics might find the Nuggets’ No. 2 seed, team officials set three fairly lofty goals before the season started. Then they watched this group, largely assembled through Denver’s own shrewd drafting and trading, reach them all.End the playoff drought? Check.Win the Northwest Division? Check.Secure a top-four seed and home-court advantage in the first round of the postseason?Check.The next step was making sure they didn’t spoil all that by falling into an 0-2 hole to San Antonio with two home defeats, which is the sort of deficit only four teams in league history have managed to erase. Yet one of the more refreshing things about this team is that it doesn’t try to pretend that its collective lack of postseason experience is merely a topic harped on by the news media.The Nuggets have only three players (Millsap, Barton and Mason Plumlee) who appeared in a playoff game before Game 1 of this series, and they acknowledge it’s an obstacle, especially against a team that can carry out a game plan like the Spurs.“Yes, playoff basketball is everything everybody says it is,” Harris told me Monday, on the eve of Game 2.Breakthrough performances from Murray and Jokic and big comebacks, as such, must be celebrated — even at this early stage of Round 1.So in the middle of the victorious locker room, swept up in what the novices, er, the Nuggets had just achieved, Malone was duly pulled into a robust group hug by their rarely seen owner, Stan Kroenke, and Kroenke’s son Josh, the team’s president and governor.“It was fun,” Connelly said, “to watch some young guys grow up tonight.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersJamal Murray scored 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter, and the host Denver Nuggets rallied from down 19 to beat the San Antonio Spurs 114-105 in Game 2 of their Western Conference first-round playoff series on Tuesday night.Nikola Jokic had 21 points, 13 rebounds and eight assists, Gary Harris scored 23 points, and Paul Millsap had 20 points for Denver. The Nuggets tied the series 1-1 and ended San Antonio's seven-game playoff winning streak in Denver.DeMar DeRozan scored 31 points and LaMarcus Aldridge had 24 points for the Spurs.Murray, who missed his first eight shots, hit five consecutive shots in the fourth quarter, including two straight and a pair of free throws that gave Denver a 99-97 lead, its first advantage since 17-16. The Nuggets were ahead by three before Murray drained two 3-pointers to make it 110-101.Raptors 111, Magic 82Kawhi Leonard scored 37 points on 15-for-22 shooting from the field, and Toronto defeated visiting Orlando to even its first-round Eastern Conference playoff series at one game apiece.Pascal Siakam added 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who never trailed. Kyle Lowry contributed 22 points and seven assists for Toronto while Serge Ibaka chipped in with 13 points and eight rebounds off the bench.Aaron Gordon scored 20 points for the Magic, who split the regular-season series 2-2 with the Raptors. Terrence Ross added 15 points for Orlando while Evan Fournier scored 10 points.Trail Blazers 114, Thunder 94CJ McCollum and Damian Lillard combined for 62 points as Portland swept to a victory over visiting Oklahoma City.McCollum scored 33 points and Lillard added 29 as the Trail Blazers seized a 2-0 lead in the first-round Western Conference playoff series. Maurice Harkless chipped in 14 points and nine rebounds for Portland, which led by as many as 22 points in the fourth quarter.Paul George tallied 27 points with eight rebounds for the Thunder, who led by as many as 10 points in the first half. Russell Westbrook collected 14 points, 11 assists and nine boards for Oklahoma City but shot only 5 of 20 from the field.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points and the Toronto Raptors closed their regular season with a 120-100 victory over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Tuesday night.Fred VanVleet scored 16 points, and Chris Boucher had a career-high 15 points and 13 rebounds off the bench for the Raptors, who finished the regular season at 58-24.Andrew Wiggins and Gorgui Dieng each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves, who played without All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.Toronto went on a 20-5 run over the final 5:16 of the second quarter and led 69-47 at halftime.Boucher scored 11 points in 10 minutes in the second quarter. Boucher's previous career best was the nine points he scored Dec. 28 against the Orlando Magic.The Timberwolves never got closer than 15 points in the second half, and the Raptors led by as many as 32 points in the final two periods.Towns did not play because of knee soreness. Timberwolves coach Ryan Saunders said Towns would travel with the team for Wednesday's season finale in Denver and be a game-time decision.The Raptors set a franchise record with their 26th road victory of the season.GOOD TIMINGThe Raptors were in Minneapolis on Monday night, allowing coach Nick Nurse and his staff to attend Monday night's NCAA title game. Nurse played against Virginia coach Tony Bennett when Nurse was at Northern Iowa and Bennett was at Wisconsin-Green Bay. "I think I held him to 29 points one time," Nurse joked.TIP-INSRaptors: G Kyle Lowry (rest), F/C Serge Ibaka (rest) and G Patrick McCaw (sprained right thumb) did not play. VanVleet started in place of Lowry. . Toronto reached 1,000 made 3-pointers in a season for the first time.Timberwolves: G Jerryd Bayless (right ankle contusion) and F Taj Gibson (strained left calf) did not play. They joined Towns and long-term absentees F Robert Covington (bone bruise on right knee), F Luol Deng (left Achilles soreness), G Derrick Rose (right elbow surgery) and G Jeff Teague (left foot inflammation) in missing the game. . Dieng made his first start since April 12, 2017. . Tyus Jones had his stretch of 129:18 without a turnover snapped.UP NEXTRaptors: Host either Brooklyn Nets or Orlando Magic in Eastern Conference playoffs.Timberwolves: At Denver Nuggets on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherHere’s a fact that is pretty obvious. When the point spread on a game is big, the favorite usually wins.In the 39 N.B.A. games since 2003 with a spread of 18 or higher, the favorite won them all, according to the Teamrankings.com database.It wasn’t quite an 18-point spread when the Golden State Warriors faced the Phoenix Suns on Sunday night, but it was close. Depending on where you gamble, the Warriors were favored by 16 to 17 points. Games in that range are still won by the favorites 97 percent of the time.Few should have been surprised by the big line on Sunday. The Suns are bad, going into the game with a record of 15-52, worse than anyone but the Knicks. And the Warriors are the Warriors. Not only that, but the game was being played at Golden State.The chance of an upset had shrunk from microscopic to infinitesimal at the 2:58 mark of the first quarter when the Warriors led by 16 points. A ho-hum blowout seemed to be in the offing.The Suns won the game.Devin Booker had 37 points and 11 assists in the shocking victory. “We came in, we fought, we were down 16,” forward Kelly Oubre Jr. told The Arizona Republic. “We still fought. We came up with a big win against the best team in the N.B.A.”The Suns are actually on a bit of a roll, having won five of their last seven. Don’t start checking the playoff race though: Those wins came immediately after a franchise-worst 17-game losing streak.And cynical Suns fans don’t have to worry either. The team is still three games away from slipping out of the bottom three, the teams that have an equal chance of nabbing the No. 1 pick in the draft, probably Zion Williamson of Duke.It was the first Suns win over the Warriors since November 2014. That was 18 straight games of futility against Golden State, the longest active losing streak by one team against another.Klay Thompson of the Warriors (10-for-22 for 28 points) had a curious take afterward, pointing a finger at the home fans. “I expect our crowd to be a little more into it,” he said. “At least you could stand up or something when we make a good play, especially at the beginning. We need that energy, especially at this time of year. Its hard to conjure up energy every single night.”The Warriors, who have the third best record in the league but are still the heavy championship favorites, had better get some energy in a hurry. They now go on a four-game road trip with a much tougher lineup of foes, starting with the Houston Rockets and Oklahoma City Thunder. Their top seed in the West — they are currently a game and a half ahead of the Denver Nuggets — could be under threat.The Suns will miss the playoffs for the ninth straight year (the second longest streak after the Kings). But they will always have the night they won as 17-point underdogs. Outright.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — Damian Lillard scored 30 points to lead the Portland Trail Blazers to a 115-108 victory over a Denver Nuggets team that rested its top three scorers Sunday night after securing home-court advantage in the playoffs.Al-Farouq Aminu added 23 points and 11 rebounds for Portland, which held on to fourth place in the Western Conference with two games remaining. The win snapped a six-game losing streak to the Nuggets.Gary Harris had 18 points for Denver, which played without Nikola Jokic, Paul Millsap and Jamal Murray.After trailing by 14 points in the first half, Denver closed the gap in the second half and pulled to 92-91 on Torrey Craig's 3-pointer before taking the lead on free throws.The teams traded the lead but Juancho Hernangomez hit a 3-pointer that put the Nuggets in front 104-98 with 5:14 left.Lillard's 3-pointer put the Blazers ahead 107-106 and Enes Kanter extended the lead with a layup with 2:18 left. Aminu added free throws and a reverse layup that made it 114-106 and sealed the win.The Blazers got back CJ McCollum, who was out for 10 games with a left knee injury. Coach Terry Stotts said before the game that his minutes would be restricted, but McColllum played 25 minutes and had nine points.The Nuggets defeated the Blazers just two days before. Jokic had 22 points, 13 rebounds and nine assists, and Denver clinched the Northwest Division title with a 119-110 victory on Friday night. It was the team's first division title in six years.The Nuggets were assured of at least the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference and can clinch the second seed with two more wins. They haven't been the No. 2 seed since the 2008-09 season.But with home-court clinched, the Nuggets sat Jokic, Millsap and Murray against the Blazers."We just want to make sure we're healthy, rested and playing as well as we can going in," coach Michael Malone said.Portland started the day a game up on Utah for the fourth seed. The Jazz played the Lakers on Sunday night. The Rockets held on to the No. 3 seed with a 149-113 win over the Suns.The Nuggets led by eight points in the opening minutes, but Portland caught up and took a 29-25 lead going into the second quarter. Portland stretched the lead to 14 before heading to the break with a 60-49 lead.Portland reserve guard Seth Curry, who sat out Friday's game with leg soreness, came off the bench to lead all scorers with 11 points at the break.The Nuggets closed the gap in the third quarter, outscoring Portland 12-2 to get within 73-72 on Lyles' basket. Denver was unable to pull in front.TIP INSNuggets: Denver won the previous five games against the Blazers. ... Denver missed out on the playoffs for the past two seasons. ... Mason Plumlee fouled out with 1:38 left.Trail Blazers: With his first 3-pointer, Lillard passed his franchise record of 229 3s set in the 2015-16 season. With his second, he reached 1,500 for his career. ... Portland went 8-2 without McCollum. ... Kanter had 11 points and 13 rebounds for his fourth double-double in five games.UP NEXTNuggets: At Utah on Tuesday before hostingMinnesota on Wednesday to end the season.Trail Blazers: At the Lakers on Tuesday before wrapping up the season at home against Sacramento on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDENVER — Nikola Jokic scored 29 points and had a key strip in the closing seconds for the Denver Nuggets, who scored the game's final 15 points in a 99-95 win over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Wednesday night that secured the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs."We didn't give up," Jokic told the crowd after the Nuggets pulled out the improbable win to set up a first-round playoff series with the seventh-seeded San Antonio Spurs, instead of sixth-seeded Oklahoma City.The Nuggets are in the postseason for the first time in six years.Jamal Murray added 17 points, including the go-ahead 3-pointer with 31 seconds left that put Denver up 96-95. Jokic stripped Andrew Wiggins, who led the Timberwolves with 25 points, and then sank two free throws for a three-point cushion.Wiggins' 3-pointer to tie it hit the front of the rim and the Nuggets got the ball back. Paul Millsap was fouled at the other end with 4.2 seconds remaining. He sank his first free throw and missed his second, but teammate Will Barton corralled the rebound and dribbled out the clock.Gorgui Dieng added 18 points for the Timberwolves backups and rookie Cameron Reynolds scored a career-best 17 points, including a 3-pointer that put Minnesota ahead 95-84 with 4:01 left.They wouldn't score again.Jokic also pulled down 14 rebounds one night after his worst game of the year, one in which he scored just two points before fouling out in 16 minutes in a loss at Utah.A year ago, these two teams met on the final day of the regular season with a lot more at stake. The Timberwolves won that one in overtime in the first final-day play-in game in the NBA in 21 years, ending a 14-year playoff absence and extending Denver's drought to six seasons.Then, All-Star Jimmy Butler demanded a trade that torpedoed the Timberwolves, who fell to 36-46 and reverted to also-ran status while the Nuggets put together a 54-28 breakout for their first trip to the playoffs since 2012-13."Each one of our players deserves credit, because they've all bought in from Day 1," Malone said. "And I think we've used that motivation of losing in Minneapolis last year Game 82 because coming up short two years in a row is really hard and it's kind of motivated us to be the team we are right now."TIP-INS:Timberwolves: Minnesota played without starters Karl Anthony-Towns (right knee), Jeff Teague (left foot) and Robert Covington (right knee) and key reserves Taj Gibson (left calf) and Derrick Rose (right elbow).Nuggets: Denver finished an NBA-best 34-7 at home. ... The Nuggets earned a No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs for the sixth time in their history and for the first time since 2008-09, when they last won a playoff series, 4-1 over the Mavericks in the conference semifinals. They have lost their last five playoff series.FIRST THINGS FIRSTThe Timberwolves will make hiring a new president of basketball operations their first offseason priority. The fates of general manager Scott Layden and interim head coach Ryan Saunders have yet to be decided. Tom Thibodeau, who was fired Jan. 6, held the dual role of president of basketball operations and head coach."It really does not change anything for me one bit," Saunders said. "When I accepted this post in early January, I approached it as I'm the head coach until they tell me I'm not the head coach. And that's how I continue to look at things moving forward."UP NEXTTimberwolves: A search for a president, followed by decisions on Layden and Saunders.Nuggets: A return to the playoffs after a six-year absence, facing the San Antonio Spurs in the first round.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDENVER — DeMar DeRozan scored 18 points and Derrick White had a key steal in the closing seconds in the San Antonio Spurs' 101-96 victory over the Denver Nuggets on Saturday night in Game 1 of their playoff series.White stole the ball at midcourt from Jamal Murray with 1.3 seconds left after LaMarcus Aldridge sank a pair of free throws following his key defensive rebound of Murray's errant shot that would have given the Nuggets a 98-97 lead with seven seconds left.Game 2 is Tuesday night in Denver, where the second-seeded Nuggets failed to parlay the NBA's best home-court record (34-7) into a win against the seventh-seeded but much more seasoned Spurs.San Antonio is making its 22nd straight playoff appearance, this one with a new cast that includes DeRozan, who came over from Toronto in the Kawhi Leonard trade.The Spurs' win marked the third by a road team on the opening day of the NBA playoffs. They joined the Nets, who won at Philadelphia, and Magic, who won at Toronto.The Nuggets, making their first playoff appearance in six years, trailed most of the night. Their last lead came with four minutes left in the first quarter but they trimmed a 12-point deficit to one in the closing minutes.They had the ball with 13 seconds left trailing 97-96 but Murray's shot was off — as it was all night — and Aldridge, who shot just 6 of 19 himself, corralled the rebound, then sank two free throws to make it 99-96 with 6.9 seconds remaining.The Nuggets were hoping for a game-tying 3 although they were just 6 of 28 from long range.They never got the chance, though, as White, a second-year pro who moved into a bigger role when Dejounte Murray got hurt in the preseason, stripped Murray and drew the foul, then sank both shots."He was spectacular," Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said. "For somebody who got put in that position and to learn that position with a bunch of new players, it's really remarkable what he's done. Hopefully, he'll continue to play that way because it's going to be a long series."Denver All-Star Nikola Jokic posted the fourth triple-double in Nuggets playoff history, with 10 points, 14 assists and 14 rebounds. But he was hesitant on offense all night, taking just nine shots and making four of them.Throttled by Aldridge, Jokic passed up opportunity after opportunity and shot an airball on a 3-pointer at a crucial moment in the second half that helped San Antonio hold off Denver's surge.)Popovich said it was a wash because Aldridge, who was 6-for-19 for 15 points, really didn't get going, either."We didn't let Jokic play as he wanted and they didn't let LaMarcus play as much as he wanted," Popovich said.White added 16 points for San Antonio and Aldridge and Bryn Forbes each had 15. Reserve Rudy Gay scored 14.Gary Harris led Denver with 20 points and Murray had 17, but that was on 8-of-24 shooting, including 0 for 6 from the arc.The Spurs made 15 of 20 shots in the second quarter to build a 59-51 halftime lead.The Spurs came out cold in the second half and the Nuggets pulled to 62-59. However, Denver missed open 3-pointers on four subsequent possessions with a chance to tie it.The Nuggets are the youngest team in the Western Conference playoffs with an average age just a tad under 25, and only four of them had any playoff experience before Saturday night. So, coach Michael Malone said before tip-off he expected his team to come out a bundle of nerves."This is not rocket science," Malone said. "This is still basketball. And we're going to continue to try to do what we've done at a very high level over the regular season. The biggest factor, the biggest concern will be the initial couple of minutes and trying to get those nerves out. Then I expect we'll be fine after that."They may have settled down but they never really settled in.Asked what adjustments he had in mind for Game 2, Malone said simply, "Make shots."TIP-INS:San Antonio: The Spurs have won five of six playoff series against the Nuggets with their only series defeat coming in 1985. ... The Nuggets held San Antonio to 13 points in the third quarter but managed just 17 themselves.Denver: The Nuggets are 6-21 against the Spurs in the playoffs. ... The Nuggets have lost seven of their last 12 home games against San Antonio. ... Denver won the Northwest Division title for the first time since 2010. ... Denver missed eight free throws.UP NEXTGame 2 is Tuesday night in Denver.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDENVER — Jamal Murray just couldn't get the bad taste out of his mouth, and even a bite of pretzel he poached from a kid after tumbling into the stands in the third quarter wasn't exactly satisfying."It was really dry," Murray said.Maybe it was just what Murray needed, however, helping spark his fabulous fourth quarter that fueled the Denver Nuggets' 114-105 comeback over the San Antonio Spurs and knotting their playoff series 1-1.Murray's late heroics may very well have salvaged Denver's season.Teammates told him to keep shooting the ball when his shots kept rimming out. Finally, he found his touch, scoring 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter."Everybody told me to stick with it," Murray said. "I don't think I scored a field goal until the fourth. I just stuck with it. They all believed in me."The Nuggets were in danger of losing a second straight game at the Pepsi Center after posting the NBA's best home record (34-7) during the regular season. They trailed 78-59 late in the third quarter before closing the game on a 55-27 run."Coach said we are a team that never gives up," Nuggets center Nikola Jokic said. "That's true. We never give up. We lost the first game. We were down 19. That's all excuses. But we never gave up. There is something about this team. We have a heart. We're never going to let you win so easy."It was looking very much like an easy win for San Antonio, which frittered away two 19-point leads."We gave up 38 points (actually, 39) in the fourth quarter. End of story," fumed Spurs coach Gregg Popovich, who drew a technical foul during the Nuggets' comeback.Nuggets coach Michael Malone said he never considered benching Murray because he didn't want to crush his confidence. He said he took him aside at halftime and told him to take a deep breath and trust his shots would start falling."Never once did I think about pulling him from the lineup," Malone said.Good thing, too, because Murray, the goat in Game 1 after missing an open jumper and turning the ball over in the closing seconds, might have salvaged the Nuggets' season while going 8 for 9 in the fourth quarter.The series shifts to San Antonio, where the Nuggets haven't won since 2012, for Game 3 on Thursday night."We had to have this one," Denver's Paul Millsap said. "Going down 0-2 into San Antonio would've been a tough situation for us. To pull this one off the way we did, was unbelievable."Thanks to Murray, who not only waited until the end to get going in the game but was a late arrival in the postgame news conference."It was great to see him make shots," Millsap said. "I think he's got his confidence back. The key was to continue to take shots. If you miss them, so what? Shoot with confidence, and he did."Malone said he was bursting with pride over Murray's phenomenal bounce-back."He was so frustrated at halftime, not making shots, shots that he's made his whole career," Malone recounted. "I just grabbed him. I said, 'Listen, take a deep breath. You're putting too much pressure on yourself. Every shot right now was like the end of the world. I believe in you. I love you. Just go out there and play.'""It was great to see him have some success. After Game 1. And after the first half. Really happy for Jamal and for him to step up and basically close the game out with his shot-making that he had down the stretch. The first of many for Jamal Murray, I have no doubt."STILL HAPPYDeMar DeRozan said the Spurs still felt good leaving Denver despite blowing those big leads and a big opportunity to take a 2-0 lead."We got Game 1. We fought, tried to get Game 2 but we've got home court shifting our way," he said. "Now it's on us to go home and do what we need to do and understand if we take care of home like we've been doing all year, we can come back here with an opportunity. So, we feel great about where we're at. We understood it wasn't going to be a cakewalk."TIP-INS:San Antonio: The Spurs fell to 21-7 against Denver in the playoffs. They had won seven of their last 12 games in Denver, including the regular season. ... The Spurs got 31 points from DeRozan, 24 from LaMarcus Aldridge and 17 from Derrick White.Denver: Millsap added 20 points for Denver and Jokic just missed his second triple-double of the series, scoring 21 points, pulling down 13 rebounds and dishing out eight assists. ... The Nuggets ended a seven-game home losing streak to San Antonio in the playoffs.UP NEXTThe series shifts to San Antonio for Game 3 Thursday night.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Rajon Rondo has had a difficult time for the Lakers. He was suspended after brawling with the Houston Rockets in the second game of the season. He proceeded to mangle his right hand not just once, but twice, requiring surgery both times while missing a total of 31 games. And in recent weeks, he has been coming off the bench for Coach Luke Walton, even as Lonzo Ball, who had been starting at point guard, continues to recover from an ankle injury.Rondo, a 13-year pro, was supposed to be an invaluable presence for the Lakers, who had otherwise surrounded LeBron James in Year 1 of the West Coast LeBron era with a cast of unproven (if promising) players and a hodgepodge of reclamation projects. Nobody thought this team would vie for a championship, but the road has been rougher than expected.In the wake of a recent two-game road trip to New Orleans and Memphis that resulted in two deflating losses and the very real sense that the Lakers could miss the playoffs, Walton approached Rondo for a quiet conversation. Walton wanted to put him back in the starting lineup for Wednesday’s game against the Pelicans, and Rondo was on board with the plan.After all, what did the Lakers have to lose? Aside from losing another game that they desperately needed to win.“We sat there and talked,” Walton said. “He’s been fine with his role. He wants to play more — everyone wants to play more. But he hasn’t been complaining or anything like that. But our conversation was one of: ‘Let’s talk about what we need to do. How do we get back on track?’ It was an honest conversation. It was healthy and positive.”As far as confidence-building exercises go, the Lakers’ subsequent 125-119 victory over the Pelicans was not necessarily Grade A material. The Pelicans have their own issues, and their star center Anthony Davis, who had hoped to be playing for the Lakers after this month’s trade deadline, was on a strict minutes limit as the Pelicans eye a summer sweepstakes for his services. (They would like to keep his limbs intact in the meantime.)But Walton’s favorite verb after the game was “need,” as in the Lakers needed the win and needed some positive vibes.Sure enough, Rondo helped a great deal, finishing with 16 assists, 11 points and 7 rebounds in 37 minutes.“I’m very confident in what Rondo has done in this league,” Walton said. “He’s struggled a little bit, but some of that’s on me. His minutes have been down. We’ve been trying to find different groups to work. But he’s proven over his career that when he gets an opportunity, he shows up to play.”Rondo was not particularly adept from the perimeter, shooting 5 of 15 from the field, and Davis feasted on the Lakers’ smaller lineup when he was on the court. Walton knows those could be more pressing issues against better teams. But for one night, the Lakers (30-31) allowed themselves to savor some hard-earned momentum — because it might not last.The Lakers, who have been hindered this season by injuries and trade-deadline intrigue, are not a great basketball team. The question is whether they are merely mediocre, with a chance of still making the playoffs, or not very good at all, in which case they will have wasted their first year with James on the roster.It hardly helps that the Lakers have one of the league’s most difficult schedules the rest of the way, starting Friday when they host the Milwaukee Bucks, who improved to 47-14 on Wednesday with a win against the Sacramento Kings. The Lakers’ coming schedule also includes meetings with playoff-bound teams like the Denver Nuggets and the Toronto Raptors.“Every day is going to be its own challenge,” James said, adding: “Just try to stay positive throughout whatever’s going on.”Rondo had experienced his own set of challenges ahead of Wednesday’s game. He was coming off a pair of dreadful performances during the team’s recent two-game trip, averaging 4.5 points and 2 assists off the bench while shooting 36.4 percent from the field. He was a nonfactor, or perhaps even a net negative.“I didn’t have the rhythm on both ends of the floor,” Rondo said. “That’s why we have 82 games. You have the opportunity to play again and redeem yourself.”At Wednesday’s shootaround, center Tyson Chandler kept yelling, “energy, energy, energy,” Rondo said. And during the game itself, the players focused on their body language — lots of hugs and high-fives — in addition to actually playing some defense for a change. Walton was also pleased that the Lakers had 37 assists to go with just eight turnovers.“It’s a lot of fun when your guys are playing like that,” he said.Forget that the Pelicans are struggling. Forget that James needed to sink a fadeaway 3-pointer from the corner with 31.3 seconds left to seal the win and sidestep disaster. Forget that Julius Randle, a center the Lakers let walk in free agency last summer, torched his old team for 35 points in the loss.Forget all this until Friday, when Rondo and the rest of the Lakers are sure to face an even stiffer challenge.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Kennard scored 27 points off the bench and the postseason-bound Detroit Pistons closed out their regular season finale by walloping the host New York Knicks 115-89 on Wednesday.The Pistons (41-41) qualified for the Eastern Conference playoffs for just the second time since the 2009-10 season. They were swept by Cleveland in the opening round of the 2015-16 playoffs.Detroit will be the No. 8 seed and face top-seeded Milwaukee in the first round.Kennard's point total was one shy of his career high. Reggie Jackson had 21 points and Andre Drummond supplied 20 points and 18 rebounds for Detroit. Wayne Ellington tossed in 12 points, all on 3-point makes.Heat 113, Nets 94Dwyane Wade ended his storied career with a triple-double of 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists as visiting Miami was dealt a loss to Brooklyn, which clinched sixth place in the Eastern Conference.The Nets honored Wade with a video tribute in pregame introductions by highlighting some of his notable shots against them over the course of a 16-year career while the text on the screen read "Thanks for the Memories."With longtime friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony sitting courtside, Wade recorded his fifth career triple-double in his 1,054th regular-season game since entering the league as the fifth overall pick out of Marquette in 2003.Spurs 105, Mavericks 94LaMarcus Aldridge poured in 34 points and totaled 16 rebounds to help propel San Antonio to a resounding win over visiting Dallas in the regular-season finale for both teams.It was also the final game in the 21-year career of Dallas forward Dirk Nowitzki, who led Dallas with 20 points and pulled down 10 rebounds in 31 minutes of play before leaving the court for the final time with 47 seconds remaining.The win was San Antonio's third straight and -- combined with Oklahoma City's win over Milwaukee -- earned the Spurs the seventh seed in the NBA playoffs, where they will face the Denver Nuggets. Dallas, playing the second game of an emotional home-road back-to-back, had a two-game winning streak snapped and they will miss the postseason for the third straight season.Trail Blazers 136, Kings 131Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a season-high 37 points to lift Portland to a come-from-behind victory over visiting Sacramento.Skal Labissiere added 29 points and 15 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who trailed by as many as 28 points in the first half.Jake Layman, Meyers Leonard and Gary Trent Jr. scored 19 points apiece for Portland (53-29), which gained the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference and will face No. 6 Oklahoma City (49-33) in the first round of the playoffs.Nuggets 99, Timberwolves 95Jamal Murray hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 31.5 seconds left, and host Denver scored the final 15 points of the game to beat Minnesota to earn the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference.Nikola Jokic finished with 29 points and 14 rebounds and Murray scored 17 for Denver. The Nuggets (54-28) will play the San Antonio Spurs in the first round of the playoffs.Andrew Wiggins scored 25 points, Gorgui Dieng had 18 points and 11 rebounds and Cameron Reynolds added 19 points off the bench for the short-handed Timberwolves (36-46).Clippers 143, Jazz 137 (OT)With their respective playoff spots locked, Los Angeles and Utah ended their regular seasons in overtime, where the Clippers won to end a three-game losing streak.Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead the Clippers. Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Lou Williams scored 15 off the bench.Utah rookie Grayson Allen scored a career-high 40 points and Georges Niang scored a career-best 24 off the bench.Thunder 127, Bucks 116Dennis Schroder scored 32 points to help Oklahoma City earn the No. 6 seed in the Western Conference with a win at Milwaukee.The Bucks, who had already sealed the top seed in the Eastern Conference coming into the game, sat three starters -- Giannis Antetokounmpo, Eric Bledsoe and Brook Lopez -- to rest them for the playoffs.Milwaukee (60-22) will start the playoffs against the eighth-seeded Detroit Pistons (41-41). The Thunder (49-33) will open the playoffs against the third-seeded Portland Trail Blazers (53-29).Pacers 135, Hawks 134Edmond Sumner made three free throws with 0.3 seconds remaining to lift Indiana to a road win over Atlanta in the final regular-season game for both teams.Atlanta finished the season with a 29-53 record while Indiana (48-34) heads into the playoffs winners of only four of its last 13 games.The fifth-place Pacers will oppose the fourth-place Boston Celtics (49-33) in the first round of the Eastern Conference postseason.Magic 122, Hornets 114Terrence Ross came off the bench to score a season-high 35 points, and playoff-bound Orlando ended Charlotte's season.Ross scored 19 of his points in the first half, when the Magic led by as many as 13. He finished 12 of 19 from the field and 6 of 10 from 3-point range. Ross' performance overshadowed a 43-point explosion by Charlotte's Kemba Walker in the defeat.The Magic (42-40) remained the No. 7 seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs with the victory, and will face second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs.Grizzlies 132, Warriors 117Memphis dizzied visiting Golden State in the regular-season finale for both teams, parlaying a remarkable 86-point first half into a shocking win.The loss had no bearing on the playoff seeding for the Warriors (57-25). The two-time defending champions enter the postseason as the top seed in the Western Conference and they will open the playoffs against the No. 8 seed, the Los Angeles Clippers, who defeated the Utah Jazz, 143-137, in overtime Wednesday.The win allowed the Grizzlies (33-49) to avoid what would have been a second straight season of at least 50 losses. Rookie Jevon Carter scored 19 of his career-high 32 points in the first half, when the Grizzlies ran off to an 86-68 lead.76ers 125, Bulls 109Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points and Boban Marjanovic added 18 to lift host Philadelphia over Chicago.T.J. McConnell tied his career-high with 18, Zhaire Smith contributed 17 and Greg Monroe had 14 for the Sixers, who completed their regular season with a 51-31 record and the No. 3 playoff seed in the Eastern Conference. The Sixers finished 31-10 at home.The Sixers were extremely short-handed as numerous key players were held out for precautionary reasons as the playoffs are about to begin. All-Star center Joel Embiid, All-Star guard Ben Simmons, guard JJ Redick, forward Jimmy Butler and forward Tobias Harris were all held out.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn BaseballBy Tyler KepnerPHOENIX — No city’s fans combine supreme confidence, mother bear protectiveness and unrelenting demands the way Philadelphia’s do. To root for a Philly team is to always expect success, to be devastated — aggrieved, even — in the face of failure, and to insist that the world know exactly how you feel. As the Eagles’ Jason Kelce proudly proclaimed last year, in his epic, breathless, post-Super Bowl rant on the steps of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, “No one likes us, we don’t care.”Into this caldron steps Bryce Harper, who really seems to crave it. True, a record $330 million contract buys a lot of affection. But in agreeing on Thursday to sign with the Phillies for 13 years — without an opt-out clause, which is usually standard in contracts for Scott Boras clients — Harper has bound himself to a sports culture all its own.“Before my first season, we had player appearances at the ballpark, and I was in my own little booth,” said Brad Lidge, a former Phillies closer, by phone on Friday. “One guy was like, ‘Can you please sign for my son?’ and then: ‘You’d better not blow any saves this year. We’re going to come down hard on you if you do!’ I was like, ‘Oh my God.’ ”Lidge did as instructed in that 2008 season. He converted all of his 48 save chances, including the World Series clincher, a cathartic moment for a city that had gone 25 years since its last championship. Lidge said he thrived on the fans’ intensity.“In a way, it gets your mind right,” he said. “It gets you really focused. You know you’re being watched under a microscope — and it’s not just how you perform on the field, it’s the way you play. The fans in Philly understand the game really well, and they can tell if you’re not hustling or taking plays off.”Harper, 26, will come of age as an athlete in Philadelphia. He could be moody in his seven years with the Washington Nationals, and was sometimes cited by managers for not hustling on ground balls. Yet he has also run into walls — a habit that can make an outfielder a hero in Philadelphia, as it did for Aaron Rowand — and he plays with a fiery edge.“He plays every game like it’s his last game,” said Pete Rose, the career hits leader and former Phillie, by phone from Las Vegas on Thursday. “He’s not worried about getting hurt; we all get hurt. Bryce is just a talent, a big-league talent since he was 13 years old around here.“Now he just needs to get that same enthusiasm during the season that he had when he won the home run derby last year. That was like a World Series celebration. Bryce is going to be there a long time, and once you get that feeling of World Series competition, you want it every year.”Rose reached his first World Series in 1970, in his eighth season; Harper is at the same career stage now. Rose played in six of them and won three championships, including in 1980 with the Phillies, whom he had joined a year earlier with a five-year contract that averaged $810,000 a season — edging David Thompson of the Denver Nuggets for the highest salary in American sports.A record contract should not come with pressure, Rose said — “Pressure is when you’re making $5,000 a month and your bills are $8,000,” he added — but Harper now shares the mandate Rose faced: to get the Phillies over the top. His arrival caps a thorough makeover of an offense that produced the fewest hits in the majors last season.The Phillies, who were 80-82 and have not had a winning record since 2011, have also added catcher J. T. Realmuto, shortstop Jean Segura and left fielder Andrew McCutchen. Harper, Realmuto and Segura were All-Stars last season, and McCutchen — the 2013 National League most valuable player — had 20 home runs and a .368 on-base percentage.“It’s the perfect timing,” the Phillies Hall of Famer Mike Schmidt told MLB Network Radio on Friday. “We were very close to contending prior to all of this happening. Now with all of this happening, Bryce Harper knows what’s going on. He knows that Philadelphia is going to be a great place to play. They ended up giving him the biggest contract ever, so he’s pretty much getting everything he wants right now.”Harper has 184 home runs and a .900 on-base plus slugging percentage through his Age 26 season; Schmidt, who started later, had 131 homers and an .869 OPS at the same age. Harper is signed through age 38, an age at which Schmidt was still productive. He turned 38 at the end of the 1987 season, when he hit 35 home runs and batted .293.Schmidt, of course, is one of the greatest players ever, a three-time M.V.P. who won 10 Gold Gloves at third base and was a central figure in the golden decade of Philadelphia sports: 1974 to 1983, when the Flyers won two Stanley Cups, the Phillies and the 76ers each won a championship, and the Eagles reached their first Super Bowl.Now the Eagles are a force again, the 76ers are a blossoming power and the Flyers have a dynamic rookie goaltender, Carter Hart, and an oddly captivating rookie mascot — a wild-haired creature named Gritty who became an instant Philadelphia sensation, at least partly because fans seemed to mock him everywhere else.Harper, who has his own distinct hairstyle, is known to grate on opponents, too. Like Lenny Dykstra in the 1980s, Harper was a division rival whom Philly fans loved to hate until he joined their team. The son of a Las Vegas ironworker, Harper just might have the brash ethos his new city adores.“He’s that way,” Boras said. “Harp’s got a lot of blue collar in him from his father. He competes, he’s passionate, he gets excited about winning. Those fans are that way, too.”Professional sports are littered with lengthy contracts that become bad investments. In Philadelphia, the fans will expect this to work. They will embrace Harper if he hustles and hits. And they will always let him know where he stands.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellUnhappy with mere tanking, displeased with their success at earning the N.B.A.’s worst record, the Knicks took Kristaps Porzingis, their once-in-a-generation asset, their most, and perhaps only, popular player, and traded him to the Dallas Mavericks on Thursday for potsherds and trinkets.Actually, point of information: Porzingis was not even the center of the transaction. The Knicks tossed him in as a sweetener to persuade the Mavericks to also take the putative shooting guard Tim Hardaway and his frightful contract. It was Steve Mills, the team president, whose feel for failure is bred in the bone, who handed Hardaway that $70.9 million deal two years ago. Now Mills and the rest of the Knicks’ vaunted leadership group have traded Porzingis to get rid of it.Had I been able to reach Mark Cuban, the Mavericks’ owner, for comment on his Porzingis heist, I can only assume he would have dissolved into uncontrollable laughter.We live in a national age of delusion and unapologetic rule-breaking, so perhaps there is a pleasingly nefarious explanation for this trade. If so, Knicks management should cling to it like a barnacle on the hull of a sinking ship. Perhaps the Knicks have successfully tampered with another team’s asset and know that Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving, or both, will sign in the summer now that the franchise has plenty of cap space.But I would put the chances that the Knicks could pull off something that clever and diabolical at 6.82 percent. When in doubt it is wisest to bank on inexplicable incompetence.Porzingis apparently helped set all this off by requesting a trade. As a 7-foot-3 23-year-old coming off a serious knee injury, he represented a conundrum for management. Do you commit this summer to a long-term contract of the sort that would tickle the tummy of Croesus? Let’s assume the Knicks’ crack medical and rehabilitation staff warned that his future looked iffy.If so, why wouldn’t Knicks management dangle Porzingis for a week or more to interested teams and let natural competitive instincts come into play around the league? When healthy, Porzingis is a top 20 player, and that made him a rare asset. Instead, the Knicks traded him posthaste for the aging center DeAndre Jordan and a talented, but raw, point guard, Dennis Smith Jr. The Knicks already have raw point guards, so maybe management succumbed to a collect-them-all fever.All theories and psychological analyses are welcome.I’ve followed the Knicks for decades now, and my sons soon contracted my affliction. Like residents in a smallpox ward we often debate whether we have divined one obscure reason or another for faint hope, which is why I hopped the subway a week ago and went to Barclays Center to watch the Knicks take on the Brooklyn Nets.It was a desultory affair at times, but it did feature a Nets team that is climbing in the standings with surprising speed, in contrast to the Knicks, who are hurtling happily downward. And the Nets played like men returned from a near-death experience, happily surprised to possess a winning record after four losing seasons in the Hades of the N.B.A.To his credit, the Nets’ general manager, Sean Marks, has executed a smart rebuild with a fishmonger’s eye for plucking useful talent out of the discard pool. The Nets play a swarming defense with a collective bounce, and their wait-who-is-that-guy no-names are long on desire and short on distorting egos. It was possible to daydream that if only they could sign a Durant or a Kawhi Leonard as a free agent, the Nets could be a genuine terror in the Eastern Conference.The Knicks offer terror of a different sort. They decided this season to double down on what they have done instinctually for so many years and devote their energies to pure losing. They are superb at it. Entering Friday’s game against Boston, their record stood at 10-40, which assures them a high draft pick in June.The modern N.B.A. is an upstairs-downstairs league and runs a two-tier competition: The upstairs version is staged by the top 10 or so teams and is all about winning and praying that your team will not face the Golden State Warriors until late in the playoffs, at which point you will be excused for exiting quickly and feet first.The downstairs version involves a half-dozen teams, and the point is to become the worst of the worst and pray you can draft a young stud who will turn around your franchise. The worst-run teams return year after year to this brackish well. This is the game at which the Knicks currently excel.And there is indeed much unlovely about these Knicks. Their defense occupies a netherworld between theoretical and clueless. Their now-traded shooting guard, Hardaway, appeared to have had his conscience surgically removed and would shoot anywhere at any time and none too successfully.And yet, and yet, I thought these Knicks offered a rough hope. They have the youngest team in the league, a group of foals, and a few might even possess lasting talent. Put them together with Porzingis, and something intriguing might emerge.Friends resisted these optimistic blandishments, and I dug that. In James Dolan, the Knicks have an owner who meddles and hires and fires team presidents and coaches like a mad king. In the past 17 seasons, the Knicks finished with a winning record precisely twice. This one will be no better.Still, I felt hope. The new coach, David Fizdale, is a clever basketball man who seemed O.K. with playing dorm father to a collection of teenagers. This week, Fizdale pointed to the Philadelphia 76ers, the Denver Nuggets and, yes, the Nets as young teams that weathered harrowing days and re-emerged in solid shape.“All of these teams went through hell,” Fizdale said. “You got to get steeled up. This league is not going to let you walk in here as a young team and just think you’re going to come out winning.”Not long after those remarks, the Knicks traded Porzingis. My eldest son, Nick, a fierce dead-ender on the question of team loyalties, is now recommending a family summit with a single agenda item: to switch or not to switch to the Nets?This feels almost as inconceivable as trading a 23-year-old star-in-the-making for potsherds.Mission accomplished all around.Email: powellm@nytimes.comAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — On Thursday morning, in the middle of a six-game road trip that had produced its share of duds, Knicks Coach David Fizdale started practice by gathering his players for an announcement: Kevin Knox, a first-year forward, had been named the N.B.A.’s Eastern Conference rookie of the month for December.The news was well received by Knox’s teammates. Emmanuel Mudiay and Mario Hezonja rubbed Knox’s head as Frank Ntilikina made a halfhearted attempt to jump on his back. Knox appeared genuinely surprised — and pleased. The award seemed to validate his hard work while offering the Knicks (10-29) a reprieve from a season that was long ago sacrificed to the twin gods of player development and the draft lottery.Such sacrifices, of course, have become a franchise specialty.“I still have a lot of work to do,” Knox said.And so do the Knicks, who arrived to face the Los Angeles Lakers (21-18) at Staples Center on Friday night having lost eight straight.But then, another flicker of joy: The Knicks left with a 119-112 victory that they described as cathartic, even if the Lakers were without LeBron James, Kyle Kuzma and Rajon Rondo, all sidelined with injuries.At this point, the Knicks care little for such technicalities. James L. Dolan, the team owner, was in town for the game and visited the locker room afterward to congratulate the team.“When we win, we celebrate like it’s the Super Bowl,” Fizdale said. “Why not?”The Knicks were right to savor the win: Who knows when the next one will come? They still need to visit the Portland Trail Blazers and the Golden State Warriors before returning to New York on Friday, and one game will neither change the trajectory of their season nor mask their daily challenges.But it was important in its own way.“We’ll try to run with the momentum,” Tim Hardaway Jr. said.The Knicks have an odd roster made up of veterans on expiring contracts and inexperienced players who are still learning the business of pro basketball. And that mix, which is almost a 50-50 split, has caused some problems, Fizdale said, not among players in the locker room — “They like each other,” he said — but in terms of the team’s on-court chemistry.Before the Knicks arrived in Los Angeles, the first half of their road trip featured a 16-point loss to the Milwaukee Bucks, a 32-point loss to the Utah Jazz and a 7-point loss to the Denver Nuggets.“We are so young and we have so many guys in contract years fighting for their lives that I’ve got to get this group to move the ball,” Fizdale said. “The numbers say that when we pass the ball, we win. And when we don’t pass, we lose.”He went on to acknowledge the inevitable “friction” between players who are vying for their next deals (and may feel more urgency to produce) and those who have the luxury of being included in the team’s long-term plan. For the most part, Fizdale has been favoring the young players with promise.“That’s just part of this league, and that’s the juggling act that I have to handle,” Fizdale said. “Am I always going to be right? No. But will I always be upfront and honest about where we are and what we’re doing? Yes.”Enes Kanter, one of the aforementioned veterans who will be a free agent this summer, has gone public with his displeasure over his diminished role. Kanter got an opportunity off the bench against the Lakers and delivered, finishing with 16 points and 15 rebounds.“I don’t want no free money,” Kanter said. “This organization pays me money to go out and play as hard as I can and just fight. So I’m going to give my everything.”Kanter, though, is not the only one to voice frustration. Hardaway, who figures to be a part of the team’s future, has alluded to the toll of losing, to the thankless process of a perpetual rebuild. He does not subscribe to the idea that the Knicks should be tanking games to increase their odds of getting the top pick in the draft lottery.“I’m a competitor,” Hardaway said. “None of us got here by losing ballgames for our respective ball clubs when we were in college or in high school. Everybody was winners. Everybody wanted to win. Just to be in this situation is tough, but it builds character.”One of the bright spots has been the improved play of Knox, who averaged 17.1 points and 6 rebounds while shooting 38.4 percent from 3-point range during December.Against the Lakers, Knox made back-to-back 3-pointers early in the first quarter, then sliced through the lane for a dunk and a 17-point lead. The game was barely six minutes old. James, in a dark blazer, watched with a dour expression from behind the home bench. (He is expected to miss at least another week because of a groin injury.) The Knicks, after giving up their lead, held on late, thanks to some solid defense.Knox finished with 14 points in 37 minutes, which is the sort of workload to which he is becoming accustomed.“We talked about building him into a premier N.B.A. player who can play both ends of the floor,” Fizdale said, “and we’re trying to give him a taste of what that entails. It’s not necessarily the minutes you play, but what you’re doing with those minutes from an effort standpoint, from a competitive standpoint: How many calories are you burning?”For one night, the burn was worth it. The Knicks can only hope it is a sign of things to come.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreJames’s first season with the Lakers has been disappointing, but passing his idol in career scoring goes beyond winning and losing.By Benjamin HoffmanThere was no Instagram post celebrating the achievement in advance this time. There was relatively little buildup from the news media. It was an event that might have dominated the news cycle in years’ past, but when LeBron James passed Michael Jordan on the N.B.A.’s career scoring list on Wednesday night, it was a triumph that somehow had been reduced to a footnote.James came into the Los Angeles Lakers’ game against the Denver Nuggets needing 13 points to surpass Jordan for fourth place on the career list. With 5 minutes 38 seconds remaining in the second quarter, he managed to force his way to the basket for a layup, giving him 14 points for the game and 32,294 for his career. For good measure, he was fouled on the play. After a short stoppage to acknowledge the moment, play resumed as the Lakers, clinging to the last shreds of their playoff hopes, tried their best to overcome a huge early deficit at home against a heavily favored opponent.LeBron passes Michael Jordan on all-time scoring list pic.twitter.com/G2tAovqMrzThe Lakers, led by an unlikely group of bench players, did make a run at Denver, reducing a 17-point deficit at halftime to 2 points with 8:37 left in the fourth quarter. But the Nuggets regained their footing and ran away with a 115-99 victory, spoiling a night in which James contributed 31 points, 7 rebounds and 7 assists, looking far more energized on both ends of the court than he had in recent weeks, and finishing the night with his career point total up to 32,311. James, who has taken the brunt of the criticism for the Lakers’ failings in a difficult first year in Los Angeles, had acknowledged the pending accomplishment in a tweet shortly before the game, but was measured when discussing it with reporters earlier in the day.“I take all accomplishments as they come,” he said. “Any time I’m in the breath with any other greats — and obviously M.J. being the guy that I looked up to my whole life, the guy I admired as a kid — I think it’s going to be pretty cool.”Jordan, who owns the Charlotte Hornets, issued a brief statement on Thursday, saying, “I want to congratulate LeBron on achieving another great milestone during his amazing career.” The statement was notable mostly for being far more succinct than the one he issued when Kobe Bryant passed him on the career scoring list in 2014.One would hardly have guessed from either man’s words that the greatest current basketball player had just surpassed his idol in their sport’s signature statistic. The inability for James to truly celebrate the moment was yet another indignity in a season full of them.It was a little more than a year ago when James had seemingly settled into a groove. He scored his 30,000th point — a feat he congratulated himself about on Instagram hours before he actually accomplished it. With that hurdle cleared, and with recent championship runs in Miami and Cleveland under his belt, his march toward challenging Jordan, then Bryant, then Karl Malone and maybe even Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, the N.B.A.’s career scoring leader, seemed as if it would come without the criticism that had followed him earlier in his career.A decision — a loaded word when it comes to James — to move to an ill-prepared Lakers team in the off-season has changed the calculus altogether. The team was predicted by most to struggle to make the playoffs in the West thanks to its collection of too-young players and veterans who do not complement James. Nevertheless, many have labeled the year a disappointment by virtue of the team’s struggles despite having James, a player whose presence has seemingly guaranteed a finals appearance for close to a decade.As a result, James and the people around him have not been able to take much joy in his accomplishments. Just last week he passed Andre Miller to move into 10th place in career assists, thus making him the only player currently in the top 10 in both career points and assists. That feat — it had been temporarily attained by only a handful of other players going back to the days of Bob Cousy — was met with a collective shrug.It is a reality of James’s life that he acknowledged on Wednesday.“I haven’t really appreciated anything I’ve been able to accomplish because I’m so engulfed in what’s next,” he said. “How I can continue to get better; how I can help this franchise get back to where it needs to be.”An occasional season of missing the playoffs is not unusual for most players — even the great ones — but to capture how truly rare it would be for a James-led team, consider that he has played double-digit playoff games in each of the last 13 years. He has appeared in nine N.B.A. finals — winning three — and as a result his career rankings among playoff performers come off as outrageous, even for someone as accomplished as James. Those rankings almost certainly will not improve this year. But among the more interesting aspects of James’s current predicament is the opinion among many Lakers fans that the team’s struggles have resulted in James’s failing to live up to Bryant’s legacy. Those criticisms ignore the fact that the Lakers’ current six-year run of missing the playoffs included three seasons in which Bryant was still with the team. In fact, when Bryant passed Jordan on the career scoring list in 2014 — a feat considered a big enough deal at the time that a road game in Minnesota was stopped for several minutes so the crowd could give him a standing ovation and the Timberwolves’ owner could present him with the game ball — the Lakers were only 8-16 and, partially a result of a season-ending injury to Bryant later in the year, were on their way to a 21-61 record.But in one of the endless parallels between the careers of Jordan and James, players who will be debated long after both are gone, Jordan, who passed Wilt Chamberlain for No. 3 on the career scoring list in 2003, also found little joy in what should have been a huge accomplishment, largely because his Washington Wizards were a .500 team at the time. “The thing about stats is they define you when you’re 10 or 20 years past the game,” Jordan said when asked to sum up his feelings on the accomplishment. “While you’re playing, what matters is wins.”James, who wears No. 23 because of Jordan, put a wristband on his forearm because of Jordan, learned to shoot fadeaways because of Jordan and pitches sneakers for Nike just like Jordan does, may want to heed that advice from Jordan in terms of coming back on his accomplishments later, even if they have to be put aside for now. The Lakers could never win another game and James, a player who still refuses to label himself a scorer, will always have more points than Jordan, the player who served as his inspiration on a path to greatness. “I gotta carry it on to the next kid,” James said after the game, finally letting his emotion truly show. “Hopefully I can inspire the next kid like myself.”An earlier version of this article misstated the time in the game when LeBron James moved to fourth on the N.B.A.'s career scoring list. It was with 5:38 left in the second quarter, not 5:38 into the second quarter.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaDENVER — Moments after the Golden State Warriors finished obliterating the Denver Nuggets on Tuesday night, Draymond Green was asked about a teammate who did not even play — a teammate, in fact, who has yet to log a single minute this season but is nearing his much-anticipated debut.“Hopefully,” Green said, “it’s devastating for everybody else.”Let that soak in for a second. The Warriors, who have won three of the last four N.B.A. championships, are already good at basketball. All they did on Tuesday was set an N.B.A. record by scoring 51 points in the first quarter — the first quarter! — against a team that came into the game with the best record in the Western Conference.But now, after signing DeMarcus Cousins over the summer and spending recent months incorporating him into their dynastic fold as he recovered from Achilles’ tendon surgery, the Warriors expect him to be in their starting lineup when they visit the Los Angeles Clippers on Friday night. It is a grand experiment that will play out over the second half of the season.“More than anything, we’re just excited for DeMarcus,” Coach Steve Kerr said late Tuesday night, adding: “It’s going to take him some time to get his rhythm.”Cousins, a 28-year-old center and a four-time All-Star, has not played since Jan. 26, 2018, when he tore his left Achilles’ in a game for the New Orleans Pelicans. At the time, Cousins was having a career season, with averages of 25.2 points, 12.9 rebounds and 5.4 assists a game. He was also due for free agency and an enormous payday.But his type of injury has ended careers, particularly among big men, and every team in the league balked at offering him a long-term deal. He wound up with the Warriors, who signed him to a one-year contract worth $5.3 million — a modest price for a reclamation project with upside and little obvious risk.“It’s a relief,” Cousins told reporters last week. “It’s been a long year for me, a lot of ups and downs, but the finish line is ahead.”There is no way of knowing if Cousins, who is listed at 6-feet-11 and 270 pounds, will ever be the top-tier player he once was. But the Warriors neither need nor expect him to be a focal point of their offense, and if he merely commands attention from defenders, especially in the post, he should free up additional space on the perimeter for the team’s cavalcade of shooters.“We haven’t had a player like him before, so it will be new,” Kerr said. “It won’t be a simple ‘plug him in and he’ll fit right in.’ We’ll play through him some, so there will be a period where we have to adapt. Fortunately, we’re halfway through the year. We have a lot of games to figure this out.”Since the Warriors began collecting championships under Kerr in 2015, they have had a rotating cast of dependable but unspectacular centers: Andrew Bogut, Festus Ezeli, Zaza Pachulia, JaVale McGee. Cousins has never been a role player, though he acknowledged his new (and unfamiliar) place in the Warriors’ ecosystem.“Well,” he said, “I won’t be taking as many shots as I have in the past.”He also has a reputation for being emotional, and something of an antagonist. Some of the Warriors have firsthand experience. Kerr recalled getting ejected after arguing with the officials in a game against the Sacramento Kings in 2017, back when Cousins was playing for them. But before he left the court, Kerr caught Cousins taunting him by waving goodbye.Then there was an episode last season, when Cousins was playing for the Pelicans, and he got into an altercation with Kevin Durant. After both players were ejected, Cousins tried to track down Durant outside the Warriors’ locker room — and not to exchange pleasantries.“It shows that you care,” Cousins said of playing with passion. “It shows that it means something to you. I’m not really fans of the guys who are emotionless on the floor.”Nuggets Coach Mike Malone, who briefly coached Cousins in Sacramento, said he enjoyed the experience.“I loved coaching him,” Malone said. “I think he’s a player that’s misunderstood, and when you have a chance to know him, you realize who he is as a player and as a person. And when he’s healthy, he’s one of the more unstoppable big men in the N.B.A.”Malone compared Cousins to Nikola Jokic, the Nuggets’ fourth-year center and an emerging multidimensional force.“He can score inside, and he can score outside,” Malone said of Cousins. “He can handle the ball, and he can make his teammates better.”Malone said he expected that Cousins would give the Warriors “a big lift,” and Malone made those remarks before the Nuggets’ 142-111 loss to the Warriors.The Warriors have had their struggles this season, although these things tend to be relative. Green beefed with Durant. Stephen Curry missed 11 games with a strained groin. Klay Thompson labored through an early-season shooting slump that he refused to acknowledge as an early-season shooting slump. And they have lost more games than they usually do.The Warriors have been rolling of late, though, winning seven of their last eight before their game against the Pelicans on Wednesday night. They appear to be playing their best basketball of the season, as evidenced by their demolition of the Nuggets, a rout so thorough that Malone said it would be impossible for his team to just “flush” the loss and forget it.But now, as the Warriors get ready to introduce Cousins to their explosive mix, there are questions: Can he play with pace? Can he acclimate himself to a supporting role? Can he defend quicker players if opponents go small against him? And most important, can he stay healthy and find his old form ahead of the playoffs?The Warriors are eager to find out.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Consider the following scenes from the N.B.A.’s annual bacchanal/business convention known as All-Star weekend:Spike Lee standing on a street corner waiting for the crosswalk signal. Stan Kroenke, whose family owns the Denver Nuggets, holding court in a hotel lobby. Joel Embiid, the star center of the Philadelphia 76ers, making small talk with the governor of North Carolina. An army of personal stylists waiting to be summoned by their clients for some of the flashiest events of the year.And then there were the agents and league officials and sneakerheads and reporters, some of whom traveled great distances to make unconventional requests of the weekend’s main attractions.“Shout out to my fans in Mongolia!” John Collins of the Atlanta Hawks yelled into a camera the morning before his appearance in the Saturday slam dunk contest.[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]All-Star weekend tends to be a blend of basketball and branding, business and pleasure — a showcase for a powerful league whose global influence continues to expand.“The whole weekend,” Mike Conley of the Memphis Grizzlies said, “is just a big party.”The All-Star Game itself, scheduled for Sunday night, felt secondary to just about everything else in the host city, as it has for many years. Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets, recalled waiting in line in 2006 for one of the more popular parties at All-Star weekend in Houston, where he watched Maciej Lampe — a center from Poland who appeared in 64 career games over parts of three seasons — bypass the line so that he could immediately be waved inside by security.“And I’m like, ‘Man, I’m behind Maciej Lampe?’” said Morey, who would officially join the front office of the Rockets a little more than six weeks later.All-Star weekend has only grown in recent years. One spreadsheet making the rounds in Charlotte listed more than 100 parties, and that did not include many of the more exclusive events. (Michael Jordan hosted a big one.) Thanks to a change in the league schedule, there is more partying and less deal-making than there used to be.Last year, the league moved the trade deadline up so that it preceded All-Star weekend. In the past, the deadline came a few days after the game, a sequence which helped create its share of absurdity. One of the more notorious examples came in 2017, when word leaked during the fourth quarter of the All-Star Game that the New Orleans Pelicans had struck a deal to acquire DeMarcus Cousins from the Sacramento Kings. Cousins learned of the trade during postgame interviews.The weekend vibe is different now.“It’s so much more fun,” one prominent agent said at a party that he hosted.In the corner, a disc jockey who appeared to be in his 60s spun tunes in a Hawaiian shirt and red-tinted glasses, while women wearing bright red dresses passed out hors d’oeuvres. Agents, clients and marketing honchos milled about the room.But none of this is meant to suggest that deals do not get done.On Thursday night, at a downtown hotel bar where patrons sipped $25 cocktails, a crowd of very tall men gathered as a private event wound down at a nearby steakhouse. Among the luminaries who emerged from the event: Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner; Kroenke, who also owns the Los Angeles Rams; Brian Rolapp, the N.F.L.’s chief media and business officer; Bill Simmons, the founder of The Ringer; Connor Schell, ESPN’s executive vice president for content; and Bob Myers, the general manager of the Golden State Warriors.“There are definitely conversations happening,” Morey said. “And there’s serendipity involved. You’re always bumping into people.”Morey was finishing lunch at an upscale restaurant. Warren LeGarie, a longtime agent to many coaches and executives, and Kiki Vandeweghe, the league’s executive vice president for basketball operations, were dining at nearby tables. Morey was about to head into a meeting with Vandeweghe and Monty McCutchen, who supervises the league’s referees.“Obviously, we care deeply about where the league is going,” Morey said, “so talking to Adam Silver about strategy or Monty McCutchen about changing how they might call certain things — all that kind of stuff could impact our franchise moving forward, so I try to be involved.”The atmosphere may seem more relaxed than it was two years ago, when most team executives and agents were focused on the trade deadline, but the shift in the schedule has not pushed aside the league’s most pressing issues.In Charlotte, a cloud loomed over the festivities, and it came in the shape of a unibrow.Perhaps you have heard? Anthony Davis, the star center for the Pelicans, requested a trade 10 days before the deadline.The Pelicans, though, rejected all trade offers for him and instead hope to reap better players and draft picks in a deal this summer. Last week, Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry called the drama of it all a “dumpster fire.” On Friday, the Pelicans fired their general manager. On Saturday, Davis told reporters that his list of preferred destinations included the Knicks and the Los Angeles Lakers. Hours later, Silver said he would like trade demands and discussions to remain behind closed doors.In any case, the Davis situation only underscored how much the topic of player movement dominates the league — even in the middle of the season, and even after the trade deadline. Everyone here was fixated on what could happen just over four months from now — at the start of free agency.Will Kevin Durant leave the Warriors? Will Kawhi Leonard spurn the Toronto Raptors? Will Kyrie Irving bolt from the Boston Celtics? And, again, what about Davis?“No one likes to see an instance,” Silver said, “where a player is demanding that he be traded when he’s still in the middle of a contractual obligation to a team.”Silver made those remarks, and his wish for private trade discussions, at a news conference before Saturday night’s skills, dunk and 3-point competitions.The media forum, like the carefully coordinated outfits stars wore to events around town, has become part of the event’s routine. So has the roll call of courtside A-listers during the dunk contest; this year’s included the rappers Quavo, 2 Chainz, J. Cole and Gucci Mane.All-Star weekend was not always so structured — or extravagant. Paul Westphal recalled making his first trip to an All-Star Game in 1977 as a guard for the Phoenix Suns. The league hosted a modest dinner. Players received commemorative mugs. Anyone associated with the game stayed at the same hotel in downtown Milwaukee.“It wasn’t like it is now where the game takes over the whole city,” Westphal said.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar missed practice, Westphal said, then showed up about 20 minutes before the start of the game in a fur coat. Westphal helped seal his team’s win with a late steal against Pete Maravich. It was a moment he said he would never forget.This weekend, Westphal was in Charlotte, where he was named a finalist for the Basketball Hall of Fame. He said he was not planning to attend any parties.“Just dinner with friends,” he said.In Charlotte, the streets around the host arena, Spectrum Center, were choked with traffic. Concert fliers hung from every lamppost. And none of the guests, spread among numerous hotels at premium nightly rates, seemed to mind the cold weather as countless lines formed for restaurants, bars and pop-up musical performances.Given all the extracurriculars, it was easy to forget that basketball was the only reason anyone was here in the first place — and perhaps that was because the only legitimate basketball was being played in a college gymnasium a few miles from downtown. A group of elite teenage prospects, without much fanfare, had convened for the league’s annual Basketball Without Borders Global Camp.In all, 63 boys and girls from 31 countries played in front of scouts and executives who hoped to identify the sport’s next batch of stars.“There’s a lot of talent here,” said Brooks Meek, the N.B.A.’s vice president for international basketball operations.The spotlight will find them soon enough.Kevin Draper and Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballThe Mavericks rookie is drawing LeBron James comparisons and has “fast-forwarded” his team’s decision-making.By Marc SteinDALLAS — Dirk Nowitzki has seen many things in his 21 seasons with the Dallas Mavericks. What he had never seen, until last month, was a fellow Maverick who could attract nearly two dozen autograph seekers in subzero temperatures to greet the team bus on a Thursday morning in Detroit.Luka Doncic did just that in the 2 a.m. hour of Jan. 31, as the Mavericks pulled into a hotel adjacent to the world headquarters of General Motors, on the unglamorous end of a back-to-back set that began in New York.It is likewise safe to presume that none of Nowitzki’s other 197 teammates over two decades in Dallas could have inspired what happened mere hours later. In a swift-moving blockbuster trade, Dallas acquired Kristaps Porzingis from the Knicks to serve as Doncic’s sidekick, with Mavericks General Manager Donnie Nelson openly admitting that he pushed for the deal because Doncic has “fast-forwarded a lot of our decision-making.”These are the tales from just one day, albeit maybe the wildest day, of what Nowitzki frequently refers to as Lukamania.“When we get to cities now, even late at night, there are so many people waiting with things for him to sign that it’s almost like we’re the Warriors,” Nowitzki said. “Lukamania is real. We’re living it every day.”[Another Rookie: The Perimeter Can’t Protect You From Mitchell Robinson]This week brings another milestone for Doncic, who celebrates his 20th birthday on Thursday. He is averaging 20.9 points, 7.2 rebounds and 5.7 assists through 56 games and is responsible for four of the five triple-doubles in N.B.A. history recorded by teenagers. It is a start that has quickly validated Nelson’s long-held belief that Doncic possessed superstar potential.The only other rookie in league history to hit those levels over a full season was Oscar Robertson in 1960-61.“I love, love, love guys that can pass the ball,” Nelson said, prioritizing Doncic’s ability to run a team at 6 feet 7 inches over the fact he is already known for having the league’s second-most-feared step-back jump shot, behind only James Harden’s.“I knew I could play over here,” Doncic said, “but it’s better than I expected, for sure.”The gaudy numbers and worldwide interest in his exploits enabled Doncic to amass more than four million votes in N.B.A. All-Star balloting, trailing only LeBron James and Giannis Antetokounmpo. Doncic, in other words, finished higher in leaguewide balloting than Michael Jordan (fifth) did as a rookie. Higher, too, than James (13th) and even Yao Ming, who could manage only the fourth-highest total in 2003 despite the considerable voting might of Yao’s native China.Doncic’s instant production has also validated every pundit who insisted, amid no shortage of skepticism, that concerns about Doncic’s athleticism and corresponding ability to deal with the length of N.B.A. defenders were folly given the rampant success he achieved both at the club (Real Madrid) and national team (Slovenia) levels as an 18-year-old. In the process, Doncic has unleashed a torrent of second-guessing upon the teams (Phoenix, Sacramento and Atlanta) that let him slip to the Mavericks. Yet Doncic insists his maiden N.B.A. season, which appears destined to be christened with the league’s rookie of the year trophy, has not been as easy it looks.The Mavericks, you see, were 26-34 entering Wednesday night’s home date with Indiana and likely to miss the playoffs for a third consecutive season. They have traded away all four of Doncic’s projected fellow starters (Dennis Smith Jr., DeAndre Jordan, Wes Matthews and Harrison Barnes) in deals that netted Porzingis and roughly $30 million in salary-cap space, neither of which can help the team this season.It is the first time in Doncic’s life, since he took up basketball at age 7, that he has experienced losing. One hint of how well he’s coping with it: Doncic has pulled his jersey apart in frustration after a play gone awry — twice.“It’s harder than people think,” Doncic said.“He’s a winner — he won everything in Europe,” Juancho Hernangomez of the Denver Nuggets said. “So every time he loses, he gets so mad.”Hernangomez has been observing Doncic from close range for years, both on the floor — since Doncic played alongside Hernangomez’s brother, Charlotte’s Willy Hernangomez, at Real Madrid — and through their shared WhatsApp chat room, which houses various European players fond of the popular video game Fortnite. But Mavericks officials are not worried about a scouting report from a friend that paints Doncic as a sore loser.“He doesn’t handle losing well — I know that for a fact,” Dallas Coach Rick Carlisle said. “But I don’t handle losing well, either.”As recently as May 15, Mavericks executives were worried about Doncic — big time. Having known for more than a year that they wanted to draft him if they had the chance, team officials were crestfallen in Chicago when Dallas slipped from a projected No. 3 in that night’s draft lottery to No. 5. “It was devastating for us,” Nelson said. “We thought our chance to get him was gone because it’s really hard to trade up in the lottery.” Nowitzki betrayed a public hint of the organization’s disappointment when he tweeted this reaction: “Of course.”To move up high enough, Dallas ultimately had to persuade the Atlanta Hawks to surrender the No. 3 overall pick. It cost Dallas both the No. 5 pick, which Atlanta used to take Trae Young, as well as the Mavericks’ top pick in the 2019 draft. But the Dallas owner, Mark Cuban, blessed the deal, even at that price, because Nelson lobbied so hard for it. Five years earlier, during the 2013 draft, Nelson and his longtime international scout, Tony Ronzone, pushed for the Mavericks to use the No. 13 pick on a little-known Greek teenager named Giannis Antetokounmpo. Cuban wouldn’t allow it, given that Antetokounmpo, unlike Doncic, was mostly a mystery — and promptly regretted it as Antetokounmpo blossomed into a star in Milwaukee.So this time, after the disappointment of the lottery, Cuban blessed Nelson to do whatever it took to land Doncic. What the team got was the son of a former Slovene pro — Sasa Doncic — and a veteran of three full seasons in the EuroLeague and Spain’s La Liga with Real Madrid after Luka Doncic made his pro debut at 16.To the Mavericks’ delight, Doncic was more N.B.A.-ready than they ever dreamed — as his 16-for-29 shooting in the final three minutes of one-possession games this season would suggest. As Carlisle put it: “Unique background, unique skill set, unique body type.”“I hesitate to throw out names like LeBron James and Magic Johnson, who have been do-everything kind of stars, but it’s pretty clear now that Luka has many of those same traits and has proven that he can do a lot of those things,” Carlisle said. “He has deceptive size, strength and quickness — and an understanding beyond his years on how to use his body to make plays and draw fouls.”Carlisle is hardly alone in making such lofty comparisons. Miami’s Dwyane Wade, one of the league’s foremost James experts after their four seasons together with the Heat, has called Doncic’s passing “LeBron-like.” Los Angeles Clippers Coach Doc Rivers said of Doncic: “He’s my favorite player to watch almost, and not talking just rookies. First of all, he plays with a great joy — I love that. And he’s just so advanced in the way he plays. The sky’s the limit for him. Wait until he gets in shape.”Rivers was laughing when he tacked on that last line, but he did hit on a prime area of Year 1 concern with Doncic — conditioning.The Mavericks and Doncic’s representatives, headed by the longtime N.B.A. agent Bill Duffy, agreed shortly after the draft to impose as much rest on Doncic as possible from July through September after a nonstop run at the highest levels of international basketball for nearly a year. Doncic thus began the season heavier than his listed weight of 218 and has absorbed jibes about his diet ever since.But Mavericks officials are pleased with the gradual changes in Doncic’s dietary habits. At the team’s behest, Doncic hired a chef in December to prepare a number of meals for pregame and off-night consumption. Doncic has also begun working fresh juices into his routine.In Madrid, Doncic lived for the past two and a half years with his mother, Mirjam Poterbin, who raised Doncic while running two beauty salons in Ljubljana. (Doncic has long declined to discuss his father.)In Dallas, mom and son live separately near the American Airlines Center as Doncic grows into his independence, but still within walking distance.“This was his dream,” Poterbin said. “At 7 years old he was already talking about N.B.A. I cry a lot of times.”Yet there have been Year 1 challenges and disappointments for Doncic amid the Lukamania — and beyond the ever-present adjustment to playing for a team with scant postseason prospects.He watched helplessly as his fellow Spanish-speaking teammate J.J. Barea suffered a season-ending Achilles’ tear in January. He lived through his first big trade, seeing Dallas abruptly abort its planned Doncic/Smith Jr. partnership when the chance arose to acquire his pal Porzingis.“I was shocked,” Doncic said. “Europe doesn’t work like this.”Doncic has also struggled at times with his free throws, converting just 72.6 percent this season despite proving so adept at getting to the line (6.4 times per game). Mom, meanwhile, admitted that Doncic was “quite sad at first” about missing out on an All-Star spot because of a format change in which fan balloting, as of last season, only accounts for 50 percent of the equation for determining starters.The good news: These all rank as welcome tests — even the Mavericks’ sub-.500 record — compared to the early hurdles posed by the transition Doncic faced at 13. That was his tender age when Doncic left his mother back in Slovenia to enter the Real Madrid academy.“There are no words to describe this, really,” Poterbin said. “Honestly I would not go through it again.”“It was way harder,” Doncic said, “than coming from Madrid to here.”Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe rapper was not pleased that the Minnesota Timberwolves mocked his performance in Milwaukee. He put a curse on the team.By Benjamin HoffmanSports curses come in all shapes and sizes. They can involve livestock, soup commercials, magazine covers and, frequently, the selling of star players.In recent years, the rapper Lil B has made a name for himself in the sports realm with his curses — most notably on James Harden of the Houston Rockets — but it appears he has some new competition: the rapper Ja Rule.It all started on Saturday, when Ja Rule was performing at halftime of a game between the Minnesota Timberwolves and the host Milwaukee Bucks.The performance came on the 17th anniversary of Ja Rule’s collaboration with Ashanti, “Always Be On Time,” hitting No. 1 on Billboard’s Hot 100. But the show came under criticism immediately because of a somewhat misleading video of the crowd reaction and another one showing an unexpected guest: Giannis Antetokounmpo, the Bucks’ star forward, who came out to begin warming up for the second half while Ja Rule was still performing on the court along with a group of dancers.The rapper initially shrugged off the criticism, but his tone changed when the Timberwolves decided to mock the performance on social media. In a post to Twitter, the team said “We too were hustled, scammed, bamboozled, hood winked, lead astray!!!” The post was a reference to an earlier post by Ja Rule about his role in the ill-fated Fyre Festival, a luxury music event in the Bahamas that failed spectacularly in 2017. The rapper was not amused.The potential effects of this particular curse are unclear, though. The Timberwolves have existed as a franchise for 30 seasons and not only have not won a championship, but they have only made it out of the first round of the playoffs once — in 2004. They are 28-31, putting them just outside legitimate playoff contention, and the notion that Karl-Anthony Towns is departing anytime soon — as Ja Rule suggested with “AND KAT IS LEAVING!!!” — seems unlikely, as he has signed a five-year contract extension that kicks in next year and guarantees him nearly $160 million.Of course, logic does not have to play a role in sports curses. The Chicago Cubs endured the so-called Curse of the Billy Goat for more than 70 years after the team asked the owner of the Billy Goat Tavern, William Sianis, to leave a game because his goat was bothering fans. That the team had not won a World Series in more than 30 years before the episode was treated as mostly irrelevant. Other popular curses have included one in which the athletes endorsing Campbell’s Chunky Soup seemed to become injured at an extraordinary rate. Another claimed that athletes had their performance fall off after appearing on the cover of Sports Illustrated.The most famous, of course, is the Curse of the Bambino, which doomed the Boston Red Sox to lose after selling Babe Ruth to the Yankees in December 1919. The jinx is credited by some with keeping the Red Sox from winning a World Series for 86 years, despite the first year of that stretch coming before the team sold Ruth, and the fact that the curse was barely mentioned in popular culture before George Vecsey wrote a column about it for The New York Times in 1986. Dan Shaughnessy of the Boston Globe also wrote a book in 1990 that popularized the phrase.At the very least, the talk of Ja Rule’s curse was good news for Lil B, who spent part of the weekend trending on Twitter. He celebrated by retweeting various people saying Ja Rule was simply stealing a tactic that Lil B had already perfected.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinTom Thibodeau, the Minnesota Timberwolves’ coach and president, was abruptly fired on Sunday night — after a 22-point victory.Following a 108-86 rout at home against the LeBron James-less Los Angeles Lakers, Minnesota announced that it had ousted Thibodeau with two and a half seasons left on his five-year contract, and less than two months removed from the trade of the longtime Thibodeau favorite Jimmy Butler to the Philadelphia 76ers.Ryan Saunders, son of the former Timberwolves coach Flip Saunders, was elevated to interim coach with the Wolves at 19-21 — two games behind the eighth-seeded Lakers in the Western Conference. Saunders, 32, will be the N.B.A.’s youngest coach.Thibodeau is the third N.B.A. coach to be fired this season, joining Fred Hoiberg of the Chicago Bulls and Tyronn Lue of the Cleveland Cavaliers.It was widely presumed that Thibodeau would be in trouble at season’s end if he failed to secure a playoff berth after the headline-making deterioration of Minnesota’s relationship with Butler since the end of last season.The timing of this change, though, suggests that the Timberwolves felt a need to create two prime vacancies before Hoiberg finds a new job.The New York Times reported in December that the Wolves would probably be the only N.B.A. team to consider hiring Hoiberg to coach after his unsuccessful stint in Chicago, because of Hoiberg’s close relationship with the Timberwolves’ owner, Glen Taylor.With Hoiberg also expected to be a serious candidate for U.C.L.A.’s coaching vacancy, Minnesota can now contend for his services.ESPN reported Sunday night that the Wolves, though, are determined to keep the coaching and personnel roles separate in the future, meaning Hoiberg — or anyone else they hire — would have to choose one or the other.Thibodeau’s dismissal leaves San Antonio’s Gregg Popovich as the only coach in the 30-team N.B.A. who also holds personnel power as team president. But even Popovich does not operate in that manner, delegating virtually all of his personnel power to the team president, R. C. Buford.The Timberwolves ended a 13-year playoff drought last season by posting a 47-35 record, with Butler and the young center Karl-Anthony Towns emerging as All-Stars.Butler, however, rebuffed Minnesota’s offer of a contract extension in July in the first hint of his discontent. He ultimately asked for a trade days before the start of training camp in September — despite a long association with Thibodeau dating to their days in Chicago.Butler maintained that he had made his desire to leave Minnesota in free agency clear to the Wolves for months. But Thibodeau and his general manager, Scott Layden, did not begin to seek trades for Butler until training camp was underway and ultimately dealt him to Philadelphia on Nov. 12 for a package headlined by Dario Saric and Robert Covington. The team was 4-9 at the time.“I said let’s let it go and see how things worked and I think now, we’ve gone up through halfway through the season and I don’t think we’re where we thought we would be or where we think we should be,” Taylor told The Minneapolis Star-Tribune.“I’m just looking at the results. The results are that I don’t think we should’ve lost against Phoenix or Detroit or New Orleans or Atlanta. Maybe one of those games. We just lost against a bunch of teams that we’re a better team.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.Saunders, 32, is the youngest head coach in the league. He took over when Tom Thibodeau was fired in early January and he has earned the endorsement of his players, most notably from All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.The Timberwolves are 36-45 entering Wednesday night's season finale at Denver, including a 17-24 mark under Saunders' leadership.Saunders will reportedly receive a three-year deal with a team option on the final season.Saunders had been an assistant coach with Minnesota since 2014, after serving as an assistant with the Washington Wizards from 2009-14.Saunders' father, Flip, was the head coach of the Timberwolves from 1995-2005 and again in 2014-15. Flip Saunders guided the team to eight straight playoff appearances.ESPN also reported that Timberwolves owner Glen Taylor plans to retain general manager Scott Layden, who has been with the team since 2016.On Wednesday, the team announced it was starting its search for a president of basketball operations, a position that has been vacant since Thibodeau's dismissal."In the absence of Tom, I want to thank all who picked up his responsibilities this past year. This includes Interim Head Coach Ryan Saunders, General Manager Scott Layden and our entire basketball staff for their efforts leading our team through the 2018-19 season," Taylor said in a statement. "They worked through a season with many injuries requiring many challenges in our player lineup. We are incredibly grateful to them for all of their hard work and commitment to the franchise."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherCaris LeVert will return to the Brooklyn Nets on Friday, giving the team a boost as it jockeys for playoff position.LeVert has been out since November with a dislocated foot. He had landed awkwardly on a block attempt in a game against the Minnesota Timberwolves and was carried from the court on a stretcher. Given the frightening nature of the injury, and the dark speculation at the time, Nets fans will be happy to see him returning comparatively quickly.LeVert, a wing, had been averaging 18.4 points a game for the team, second only to D’Angelo Russell’s 19.8. It had been a breakthrough year for him after seasons averaging 8 and 12 points a game. His return will come Friday in a home game against the Bulls.The Nets also recently welcomed back shooting guard Allen Crabbe. He played Wednesday night for the first time after a two-month absence with a knee injury. He had 5 points in 13 minutes in a home victory over the Nuggets.But it is not all good news for the Nets. Spencer Dinwiddie, the team’s point guard and third-leading scorer, has missed the last seven games with a thumb injury and could be out for a month or more.The Nets, widely expected to be among the N.B.A. doormats when the season started, are in the heat of the playoff race, currently occupying the sixth seed.“I can’t wait to be a part of that,” LeVert said Thursday. “I’m very excited.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points and the Toronto Raptors closed their regular season with a 120-100 victory over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Tuesday night.Fred VanVleet scored 16 points, and Chris Boucher had a career-high 15 points and 13 rebounds off the bench for the Raptors, who finished the regular season at 58-24.Andrew Wiggins and Gorgui Dieng each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves, who played without All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.Toronto went on a 20-5 run over the final 5:16 of the second quarter and led 69-47 at halftime.Boucher scored 11 points in 10 minutes in the second quarter. Boucher's previous career best was the nine points he scored Dec. 28 against the Orlando Magic.The Timberwolves never got closer than 15 points in the second half, and the Raptors led by as many as 32 points in the final two periods.Towns did not play because of knee soreness. Timberwolves coach Ryan Saunders said Towns would travel with the team for Wednesday's season finale in Denver and be a game-time decision.The Raptors set a franchise record with their 26th road victory of the season.GOOD TIMINGThe Raptors were in Minneapolis on Monday night, allowing coach Nick Nurse and his staff to attend Monday night's NCAA title game. Nurse played against Virginia coach Tony Bennett when Nurse was at Northern Iowa and Bennett was at Wisconsin-Green Bay. "I think I held him to 29 points one time," Nurse joked.TIP-INSRaptors: G Kyle Lowry (rest), F/C Serge Ibaka (rest) and G Patrick McCaw (sprained right thumb) did not play. VanVleet started in place of Lowry. . Toronto reached 1,000 made 3-pointers in a season for the first time.Timberwolves: G Jerryd Bayless (right ankle contusion) and F Taj Gibson (strained left calf) did not play. They joined Towns and long-term absentees F Robert Covington (bone bruise on right knee), F Luol Deng (left Achilles soreness), G Derrick Rose (right elbow surgery) and G Jeff Teague (left foot inflammation) in missing the game. . Dieng made his first start since April 12, 2017. . Tyus Jones had his stretch of 129:18 without a turnover snapped.UP NEXTRaptors: Host either Brooklyn Nets or Orlando Magic in Eastern Conference playoffs.Timberwolves: At Denver Nuggets on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — Russell Westbrook had 27 points, 10 rebounds and 15 assists as the Oklahoma City Thunder beat the Minnesota Timberwolves 132-126 on Sunday.Paul George also scored 27 points and Dennis Schroder had 14 of his 21 in the fourth quarter as the Thunder remained a half-game ahead of San Antonio for seventh place in the Western Conference.Karl-Anthony Towns led Minnesota with 35 points, while Andrew Wiggins scored 24 and Dario Saric added 23. Tyus Jones scored 10 points and tied his career high with 13 assists for.Oklahoma City entered the fourth quarter trailing 97-95, but Schroder scored the final 10 points in a 12-0 run that vaulted the Thunder into a 109-101 lead. Minnesota didn't get closer than four the rest of the way.The Thunder opened the game by making five of their first six shots and led by 14 before Minnesota pushed back and cut the deficit to 38-31 after one. Westbrook and Ferguson scored nine apiece as the Thunder hit 7 of 13 3-point attempts.Trailing 43-34 early in the second, the Wolves went on a 12-3 run to tie the score on Anthony Tolliver's 3-pointer.Later, Towns hit four free throws in an 8-2 run that put Minnesota on top 60-58, but Noel and Grant hit back-to-back shots in the final minute to give the Thunder a 62-60 lead at the break.Oklahoma City made its first six shots of the third quarter, including a 3-pointer and a dunk on consecutive possessions by George. But Wiggins kept Minnesota afloat by making three straight jump shots. Then after Towns dunked twice, Saric hit four straight 3-pointers to put Minnesota on top 89-83.George then scored eight points in the final 40 seconds to cut Minnesota's lead to 97-95 after three.TIP-INSThunder: The victory helped Oklahoma City avoid being swept by the Wolves this season. Minnesota had won the first three in the series this year. ... George has 288 3-pointers this season, the fifth highest single-season total for any player in NBA history. ... Westbrook's triple-double was his 32nd of the season.Timberwolves: Before the game the Timberwolves honored Jones with the Flip Saunders Legacy Award for his contributions to the community. ... Minnesota has scored at least 100 points in a team-record 29 straight games.UP NEXTThunder: Host Houston on Tuesday night.Timberwolves: Host Toronto on Tuesday night.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — A flight was awaiting Miami Heat President Pat Riley on Saturday, just as he hoped.It just wasn't to Toronto or Milwaukee for Game 1 of a playoff series. That's the problem.Riley's second home in Malibu, California, is one of his happy places — though with the NBA playoffs starting this weekend, Malibu is about the last place he wants be right now. The playoffs aren't on Riley's calendar this season, so he's taking 10 blue notebooks to Malibu and plans to fill them with ideas on how to make sure that's not the case in 2020."I'm going to write and write and write and write," Riley said. "That's where we are for the next couple of weeks. Once the hangover subsides, then we'll have more coherent thought."A challenging offseason awaits the Heat, who went 39-43 this season and will return for training camp in about five months without Dwyane Wade — probably their best player this season, and at times certainly their most important player. Wade is retiring, and if the Heat have plans to remake their roster before next season they'll likely need some willing trade partners to make things happen.Miami already has players signed to about $140 million worth of deals for next season. Flexibility is not something Riley figures to have much of when its time to wheel and deal on the trade and free-agent markets."Very, very disappointed. I'm disappointed in myself. Obviously," Riley said Saturday, as he sat alone on a stage set up on the Heat practice court — one that figures to not be in much use for the next couple weeks while players rest and recover. "This has not come together the way that I thought it would. I thought this year that we would be in the top half of the Eastern Conference."The Heat finished 10th in the East. They beat 13 of the 16 playoff-bound teams — the only ones who swept Miami were Denver (2-0), Indiana (3-0) and Toronto (4-0). But the Heat also lost at least once to nine of the 13 other teams that didn't make the playoffs — going 1-3 against Atlanta, plus 0-2 against the Los Angeles Lakers, Sacramento Kings and Minnesota Timberwolves."There's going to be changes next year," Riley said. "Not a new culture, but tightening the screws on a culture that sometimes erodes just a little bit."Riley said the team is a long way from personnel decisions and draft strategy. The Heat want Dion Waiters slimmer and believe his game would explode if he got into world-class condition. They're still — in what seems like an annual occurrence now — figuring out how best to use Hassan Whiteside, who has a $27.1 million player option for next season. They believe James Johnson will be better. They hope Udonis Haslem returns for a 17th season.But one thing that Riley knows must change is the home record. Miami was awful at home this year, going 19-22. Only five teams were worse, and Riley was bothered by the Heat penchant for getting big leads and then letting them slip away."The last thing I want to do is send our fans into the beautiful night of Miami, cheering like crazy in the first half with a 20-point lead and leaving with a one-point loss," Riley said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. on Tuesday fined Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans $50,000 because his agent, Rich Paul, had gone public with a trade request.Davis was hit with the fine after Paul gave multiple interviews on Monday saying that the All-Star big man wanted to be traded and would decline a contract extension for an estimated $240 million that New Orleans was planning to offer in July, at the first permissible moment.Paul’s comments violated “a collectively bargained rule prohibiting players or their representatives from making public trade demands,” the league said in a statement announcing the fine.The league described Paul’s comments as an “intentional effort to undermine the contractual relationship between Davis and the Pelicans.”Paul declined to comment on Tuesday. Davis refused to speak to reporters before New Orleans’s game on Tuesday night against the Houston Rockets.In another high-profile case of a player’s trade request this season, Jimmy Butler was not fined after pressing to be dealt from the Minnesota Timberwolves in September, because neither Butler nor his agent, Bernie Lee, openly discussed Butler’s wishes with the news media. The Timberwolves ultimately traded Butler to the Philadelphia 76ers on Nov. 10.But in a subsequent example, Cleveland’s J. R. Smith — who is also represented by Paul — dodged a fine after he publicly requested a trade in November. Smith was sent away from the Cavaliers in a mutual decision between the team and Paul to allow Cleveland to try to find a new home for Smith.The Los Angeles Lakers are at the forefront of teams trying to persuade the Pelicans to surrender Davis before the Feb. 7 trade deadline.The Knicks are also determined to establish themselves as a factor in the bidding for Davis, according to a person with knowledge of the team’s plans. The Knicks, though, realize that they might not be able to make their bid for Davis until May, when the order for the top of the June draft is set, according to the person, who was not authorized to discuss the situation publicly.Barring a home-run offer before next week’s deadline, the Pelicans are widely expected by rival teams to keep Davis for the short term and wait until closer to the draft to make a deal, in hopes of broadening their trade options.The Boston Celtics, regarded for some time as the Lakers’ foremost challenger in the long-anticipated trade sweepstakes for Davis, are ineligible to acquire Davis via trade while the All-Star guard Kyrie Irving is on Boston’s roster. League rules preclude one team from having two players on the designated rookie scale contract extensions possessed by both Davis and Irving.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDENVER — Nikola Jokic scored 29 points and had a key strip in the closing seconds for the Denver Nuggets, who scored the game's final 15 points in a 99-95 win over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Wednesday night that secured the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs."We didn't give up," Jokic told the crowd after the Nuggets pulled out the improbable win to set up a first-round playoff series with the seventh-seeded San Antonio Spurs, instead of sixth-seeded Oklahoma City.The Nuggets are in the postseason for the first time in six years.Jamal Murray added 17 points, including the go-ahead 3-pointer with 31 seconds left that put Denver up 96-95. Jokic stripped Andrew Wiggins, who led the Timberwolves with 25 points, and then sank two free throws for a three-point cushion.Wiggins' 3-pointer to tie it hit the front of the rim and the Nuggets got the ball back. Paul Millsap was fouled at the other end with 4.2 seconds remaining. He sank his first free throw and missed his second, but teammate Will Barton corralled the rebound and dribbled out the clock.Gorgui Dieng added 18 points for the Timberwolves backups and rookie Cameron Reynolds scored a career-best 17 points, including a 3-pointer that put Minnesota ahead 95-84 with 4:01 left.They wouldn't score again.Jokic also pulled down 14 rebounds one night after his worst game of the year, one in which he scored just two points before fouling out in 16 minutes in a loss at Utah.A year ago, these two teams met on the final day of the regular season with a lot more at stake. The Timberwolves won that one in overtime in the first final-day play-in game in the NBA in 21 years, ending a 14-year playoff absence and extending Denver's drought to six seasons.Then, All-Star Jimmy Butler demanded a trade that torpedoed the Timberwolves, who fell to 36-46 and reverted to also-ran status while the Nuggets put together a 54-28 breakout for their first trip to the playoffs since 2012-13."Each one of our players deserves credit, because they've all bought in from Day 1," Malone said. "And I think we've used that motivation of losing in Minneapolis last year Game 82 because coming up short two years in a row is really hard and it's kind of motivated us to be the team we are right now."TIP-INS:Timberwolves: Minnesota played without starters Karl Anthony-Towns (right knee), Jeff Teague (left foot) and Robert Covington (right knee) and key reserves Taj Gibson (left calf) and Derrick Rose (right elbow).Nuggets: Denver finished an NBA-best 34-7 at home. ... The Nuggets earned a No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs for the sixth time in their history and for the first time since 2008-09, when they last won a playoff series, 4-1 over the Mavericks in the conference semifinals. They have lost their last five playoff series.FIRST THINGS FIRSTThe Timberwolves will make hiring a new president of basketball operations their first offseason priority. The fates of general manager Scott Layden and interim head coach Ryan Saunders have yet to be decided. Tom Thibodeau, who was fired Jan. 6, held the dual role of president of basketball operations and head coach."It really does not change anything for me one bit," Saunders said. "When I accepted this post in early January, I approached it as I'm the head coach until they tell me I'm not the head coach. And that's how I continue to look at things moving forward."UP NEXTTimberwolves: A search for a president, followed by decisions on Layden and Saunders.Nuggets: A return to the playoffs after a six-year absence, facing the San Antonio Spurs in the first round.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCount Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James among those who were stunned by team president Magic Johnson's resignation on Tuesday night. But according to ESPN's Ramona Shelburne on Wednesday, James still stands behind the organization and Lakers owner Jeanie Buss.ESPN also reported that head coach Luke Walton participated in exit meetings with the players on Wednesday. Walton's job security is in jeopardy after the Lakers (37-45) missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season despite the offseason signing of James to a four-year, $154 million deal.James, 34, battled injuries and appeared in a career-low 55 games and averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists per game in 2018-19.--Following his meeting with Walton, James headed to New York, where he, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony watched Dwyane Wade play his final NBA game. The Miami Heat closed out the season against the Brooklyn Nets.After a pregame video tribute to Wade, the retiring superstar went over and hugged each of his three friends. The four have been friends for years, their bond immortalized by a photo of James, Wade and Paul riding a banana boat together while on vacation in 2015. Anthony was not in the picture but was also on vacation with the group.--Boston Celtics guard Marcus Smart has a torn left oblique and could miss the first two rounds of the Eastern Conference playoffs, according to a report from ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski.Smart averaged 8.9 points, 4.0 assists and 2.9 rebounds this season for the Celtics, who will be the fourth seed in the East after posting a 49-33 regular-season record. Boston will open at home this weekend against the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers. The physical guard is noted as one of the NBA's top defenders.Smart sustained the injury in a game against the Orlando Magic on Sunday, and he did not play in Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.--Anthony Davis acknowledged that despite his desire to leave New Orleans, he could begin the 2019-20 season with the Pelicans."I'm under contract still," Davis said during an informal season-ending news conference. "I have a year left. Obviously it's a possibility it could happen. I don't have ill will toward anybody. I know that it's a possibility that next year I could be here as well. So I can't be mad if I'm here next year."Davis said his next step will be to see who emerges as the general manager for the Pelicans. Dell Demps was fired in February after his handling of the Davis situation, and Danny Ferry is the interim general manager.--The Phoenix Suns have hired longtime NBA general manager Jeff Bower as their vice president of operations, Wojnarowski reported.Bower, 57, was general manager of the then-New Orleans Hornets from October 2005 to July 2010, and he also served as the team's head coach for most of the 2009-10 season after the firing of Byron Scott.The Suns have been without a general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.--The Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.Saunders, 32, is the youngest head coach in the league. He took over when Tom Thibodeau was fired in early January and has earned the endorsement of his players, most notably from All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.The Timberwolves were 36-45 entering Wednesday night's season finale at Denver, including a 17-24 mark under Saunders' leadership. Saunders reportedly will receive a three-year deal with a team option on the final season.--The Timberwolves also announced that guard Jeff Teague underwent successful debridement surgery Tuesday to clean out his left ankle. The team had no additional updates as to any recovery timetable.Teague played in 42 games for the Minnesota this season, averaging 12.1 points and a career-best 8.2 assists in 30.1 minutes. The team shut him down for the season in mid-March.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers has shown throughout his 16-year N.B.A. career that he is good at a lot of basketball-related activities, including scoring, passing, rebounding and winning. But perhaps one of his most remarkable assets — a feat, really — is his durability. He seldom misses games because of injury.But now, less than a week after turning 34, James is still on the mend from straining his left groin in a win over the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day. The timetable for his return remains uncertain.The Lakers announced on Friday, before playing the visiting Knicks, that James would not make a coming trip with the team for back-to-back games against the Minnesota Timberwolves on Sunday and the Dallas Mavericks on Monday. The Lakers’ next game after that is on Wednesday against the Detroit Pistons at Staples Center.The team said in its statement that James was making “progress with his recovery” as he received daily treatment from the team’s medical staff and that he would be re-evaluated in one week.Entering Friday, the Lakers had lost three of the four games they had played without James, dropping them to eighth place in the Western Conference standings with a 21-17 record — a precarious position for a team with playoff hopes. The Sacramento Kings were two games back in ninth place.James’s absence has been compounded by the loss of Rajon Rondo, a veteran point guard who injured a ligament in his right ring finger against the Warriors and could miss three to four more weeks after undergoing surgery. Rondo had already missed 17 games this season because of a fractured bone in the same hand.Their absences have meant an increased reliance on the team’s young core, which includes Brandon Ingram, Kyle Kuzma and Lonzo Ball. Those players have delivered at times, but not consistently enough to manufacture many wins.As for James, he had been playing some of the finest basketball of his career, averaging 27.3 points, 8.3 rebounds and 7.1 assists while shooting 51.8 percent from the field and 35.6 percent from 3-point range. He appeared in each of the Lakers’ first 34 games and had not missed a game since April 12, 2017, back when he was employed by the Cleveland Cavaliers. That gave him a streak of 156 consecutive games played, including in the postseason.“I take a lot of pride in it,” James said of his sturdiness after injuring his groin. “That’s why it pissed me off not to be able to go back into the game. It’s more than anything being available to my teammates, being available to my coaching staff. That’s something I take more personal than anything. Hopefully it’s not a long thing.”The Lakers initially listed James as day-to-day after he underwent a magnetic resonance imaging exam. But Coach Luke Walton has said that the team will be cautious with James, who signed a four-year, $154 million deal in July.For much of his career, James has been able to ward off the corrosive effects of his profession — the daily wear and tear, the punishment from defenders. If nothing else, the last couple of weeks have revealed him to be at least semi-mortal, after all — and the Lakers are taking no chances, hoping they can remain afloat until he returns.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballThe rare N.B.A. star willing to lean into his role as a villain, Butler, briefly back in the city he scorned, is ready to absorb fans’ anger.By Marc SteinJimmy Butler knows what’s coming on Saturday night in Minneapolis. He understands, relishes and even encourages the looming prospect of the chilliest welcome any visiting N.B.A. player is bound to receive this season.“They’re going to boo me,” Butler said of the Minnesota fans who watched him force his way out of town via a trade to the Philadelphia 76ers in November — months after Butler led the woebegone Timberwolves to their first playoff berth in 14 seasons.“I would boo me, too. I’m not going to lie to you.”Now a key member of what is widely regarded as the most potent starting lineup on the N.B.A. map outside of Golden State, Butler will be back at Target Center for the first time since the trade turmoil that captivated the league for the first two months of the season.Butler insisted he was unfazed by what awaited him, and went on to suggest that a number of his Philadelphia colleagues, as well as some longtime friends who plan to be in attendance, will partake in the inevitable hostilities.“I might actually join in on the boos,” Butler said.Those who have spent any time around the rugged swingman surely don’t doubt it. At a time when N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver openly frets about player happiness — and when standouts such as Boston’s Kyrie Irving and Golden State’s Kevin Durant routinely rail against the approach of some of the news media — Butler is the rare star who savors the game’s edgy side and has embraced his portrayal as a villain.“I love it,” Butler said in a phone interview, repeating the phrase three times — including once with a profanity for emphasis. “Who wants to be loved all the time?“It’s O.K. It’s fine. I don’t need everybody to like me. I know who I am. I can’t say that enough. I know what I’m about. I know where my heart is. People will say, ‘He’s this way, or he’s that way,’ but nobody knows except for the people around me every day. Ask them and they’ll tell you differently.”Elton Brand, the 76ers’ general manager, certainly falls within that category, describing Butler as “a caring person” who has quickly endeared himself “not only to his teammates but to our whole business operations staff and in the community.”As a first-year general manager, Brand had his own reservations before going through with the first major move of his tenure, having watched chaos engulf the Timberwolves from afar — with no shortage of the noise coming from Butler himself after news leaked of the mid-September trade request he made in private.But when Brand did his research, consulting former coaches and executives who had worked with Butler, along with former players he knew well who had firsthand knowledge, such as Nazr Mohammed and Mike Dunleavy Jr., he received little in the way of dissenting feedback.“Even with the story that was reported, that wasn’t a big deal,” Brand said, referring to an ESPN report in January that asserted Butler “aggressively challenged” Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown. “He didn’t curse. He wasn’t loud. It was his reputation following him.”Butler, 29, admitted in a recent interview with Yahoo Sports’s Chris Haynes that he is a “confrontational” teammate, but that he is also trying to be more selective in showing his blunt nature as he gets older. It should be noted that, as Brand found, Butler has also been a largely popular teammate in his stints with the Chicago Bulls and Team U.S.A. — and, frankly, with numerous Timberwolves apart from the All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.Butler took a hit in some precincts after informing the since-fired coach with whom he’s so closely associated — Tom Thibodeau — that he was no longer interested in trying to nurture Towns and Andrew Wiggins and wanted out of Minnesota. One example of the damage: Butler is one of the top 12 players in the Eastern Conference, but East coaches snubbed him as a reserve for the All-Star Game in February.Yet Butler plays on, insisting he would “do nothing over” in Minnesota and reveling in the knowledge that for the first time in his career, he’s on a team capable of getting to the N.B.A. finals.“I will tell you that we’ve got a lot of talent,” Butler said.The Sixers haven’t established the required consistency to earn the label of East favorites, going 11-6 since the All-Star break with middling placement in both offensive (18th) and defensive (12th) efficiency in that span. Butler, though, is doing what he can to make it work, sacrificing in a manner that would seem to invalidate some of the criticism.Philadelphia followed its trade for Butler on Nov. 12 by acquiring Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers on Feb. 6, giving Brown two All-Star-caliber players to team with the dynamic duo of Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons and the shooter extraordinaire J.J. Redick. In the first 20 games since, when those five players share the floor, Butler has scaled back more than anyone, taking fewer shots (46) than the other four — with Embiid by far in the lead (95 shots).Of course, in fourth quarters, Butler has emerged as the most reliable offensive option of the quintet, shooting 12 for 18 when all five play together, highlighted by last week’s game-winning jumper against Boston after the Celtics had won six of the teams’ seven previous meetings. The natural drop in Butler’s per-game averages this season, playing for such a loaded team, tends to overshadow the fact that he still ranks 16th in the league in a category (Real Plus-Minus) strongly associated with team success.“He’s a special talent at closing and winning games — and not just offensively,” Brand said. “He’s just a winner.”An indication of Butler’s true standing in the game will come July 1, when he becomes an unrestricted free agent for the first time. Brand has said repeatedly that he hopes to keep Philadelphia’s new core four together, but Butler is expected to attract serious interest from both Los Angeles teams as well as the Nets. The Clippers’ special adviser Jerry West, to name one prominent fan, is said to be a longtime admirer of Butler’s two-way impact.Not that Butler is prepared to discuss much about the future. He brushed off free-agency talk in our conversation and claimed that he didn’t even know Minnesota was on this week’s calendar until I told him.He stuck mostly to peripheral subjects. Those include Butler’s devotion to playing dominoes and Uno, his friendship with “the best soccer player in the world” — Paris St.-Germain’s Brazilian star Neymar — and the trusty American football he travels around with. Butler said he plans to toss the football with other 76ers with greater regularity during the playoffs.“I’m telling you — it takes away some of that pressure,” Butler said.Thibodeau still lives in Minneapolis in the wake of his Jan. 6 firing, but politely declined to comment about Butler’s visit. Butler, for his part, continues to refer to Thibodeau as “my guy.” He said they maintained regular contact.Although Butler remains unwilling to dig deeply into the reasons he pushed so hard for an exit so soon after the dramatic impact he had in his lone full season with the Wolves, give him this: He is prepared to take whatever pent-up frustration has been stored up for him in the Twin Cities.Rather than ask for forgiveness from the locals, or even civility, Butler said: “I did what I did. I’m cool with it. I’m in a good place.”He has only one request for the basketball public: Pick someone else to win the East besides the up-and-down Sixers.“Don’t pick us,” Butler said. “I hope people say we’re going to lose in the first round. I don’t want anybody to think we’re that good because I think it makes us play a little bit harder.”Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinWith all of the trade drama surrounding Anthony Davis and Kristaps Porzingis, the N.B.A. intruded on the N.F.L.’s run-up to the Super Bowl as we have not seen since Kobe Bryant scored 81 points on football’s so-called Championship Sunday in 2006.Now that the Super Bowl is over and even more of North America’s sporting consciousness is there to be seized by professional basketball’s tireless headline-makers, here is our best advice: Buckle up.What follows is a by-the-numbers look at what the N.B.A.’s 73rd season has served up so far — and what the next five months hold.Through Sunday’s games, only the Milwaukee Bucks were on a 60-win pace. The Bucks’ Eastern Conference-leading record of 38-13 projects to a 61-win campaign — which could keep this season from being the league’s first since 2000-1 without a 60-win club.There are realistically 11 teams battling for the Western Conference’s eight playoff spots, after the new calendar year began with 14 teams in the conference — all but Phoenix — in the race. Dallas, New Orleans and Memphis have dropped off in January, prompting all three teams to focus more on trades than the standings.The consensus top three in the Most Valuable Player Award race coming out of Super Bowl weekend are Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo, Houston’s James Harden and Denver’s Nikola Jokic. According to the Basketball-Reference.com M.V.P. Award Tracker, Antetokounmpo awoke Sunday with a 37.8 percent chance of winning — far ahead of Harden’s 21.1 percent.Harden has scored at least 30 points in 26 consecutive games, good for the third-longest such streak in N.B.A. annals behind Wilt Chamberlain’s streaks of 65 and 31.The league’s trade deadline (Thursday at 3 p.m. Eastern) is three days away. This is the second season since 1978-79 (as far back as reliable N.B.A. record-keeping goes) that the deadline falls before the All-Star Game.The New Orleans Pelicans have made two trips to the playoffs — winning only one series — in Davis’s first six seasons with the team. Davis requested a trade on Jan. 28.It took 54 days for the Minnesota Timberwolves to find a trade they liked for Jimmy Butler after Butler’s request to be dealt became public Sept. 18. Butler was snubbed by East coaches in All-Star voting, but the potential ceiling for Philadelphia’s rugged new star threesome was evident Thursday night at Golden State, when Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Butler and Company brought a halt to the longest winning streak of the season — after the Warriors had won 11 in a row.Minnesota is 21-18 since the trade that sent Butler and Justin Patton to Philadelphia on Nov. 12 — and 6-6 since firing Tom Thibodeau, the coach/team president who made it, on Jan. 6. Ryan Saunders, Thibodeau’s 32-year-old replacement, has many admirers around the league, but the Wolves are a long way from convincing skeptics that the deal (to bring in Robert Covington, Dario Saric, Jerryd Bayless and a 2022 second-round pick) was sufficient for a player of Butler’s caliber.Thibodeau is one of three coaches to be fired this season — after nine coaching changes in the off-season. The other coaches to lose their jobs since opening night: Cleveland’s Tyronn Lue and Chicago’s Fred Hoiberg.There were 20 teams, entering Sunday’s play, attempting at least 30 3-pointers a game. This is poised to become the first season in N.B.A. history that the leaguewide average per game (31.4) will finish in the 30s.With coaches calling for more 3-pointers than ever before and greenlighting shots earlier and earlier in the 24-second shot clock — along with a new rule that resets the shot clock at 14 seconds on offensive rebounds — teams are averaging 100.0 possessions per 48 minutes leaguewide. The last N.B.A. season in which that figure finished in triple digits was 1988-89 (100.6).Milwaukee’s Khris Middleton, Orlando’s Nikola Vucevic, Philadelphia’s Simmons and Denver’s Jokic will make their All-Star Game debuts Feb. 17 in Charlotte, N.C. The All-Star player draft, in which the captains LeBron James and Antetokounmpo will fill out 13-man rosters by picking players playground-style, is Thursday at 7 p.m. — just four hours after the trade deadline passes. (D’Angelo Russell of the Nets, who was named later as a replacement for Indiana’s Victor Oladipo, who is injured, will also be making his All-Star debut this year.)Four teams are in contention for the league’s worst record: Phoenix (11-43), Cleveland (11-42), Chicago (12-41) and, of course, the Knicks (10-42). The teams that finish in the bottom three will share a 14 percent chance of landing the No. 1 overall pick in the draft in June in the first year of the league’s revised lottery system.San Antonio sits a surprising fifth in the West, at 32-22, in its first season since trading Kawhi Leonard to Toronto in July. The Spurs are bidding for a record 22nd consecutive playoff berth, a streak that began in Gregg Popovich’s first full season as Spurs coach in 1997-98.At 27-25, Sacramento is on course to post its first winning record since the 2005-6 season. But the Kings will have to leapfrog at least two teams to stop the league’s longest playoff drought (12 seasons). The Suns (nine seasons) and the Orlando Magic (seven) are on course to extend their own playoff droughts.The Lakers’ playoff drought will hit a hard-to-believe six seasons in a row if James cannot save Los Angeles over its final 29 games. James just missed 17 consecutive games with a strained groin — the longest injury absence of his pro career — and is at risk for missing the postseason for the first time since his second N.B.A. season, in 2004-5.Carmelo Anthony finally became an unrestricted free agent on Sunday after clearing waivers nearly three months after the Houston Rockets sent him away in November after just 10 games together. The Rockets traded Anthony to Chicago on Jan. 21; the Bulls, who needed a roster spot, waived him Friday without him spending a single second with the team.In the seven games Golden State has deployed a lineup of DeMarcus Cousins, Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green, that group is averaging 127.1 points per 100 possessions in 54 minutes. Call it a small but ominous sample size.Oddsmakers in Las Vegas have the Warriors as overwhelming favorites to win their third consecutive championship and fourth in five seasons. According to ActionNetwork.com, Golden State is -225 to win it all, meaning that you would have to bet $225 to win $100. Boston, Milwaukee and Toronto are next in line at +1,000, meaning that a $100 bet would win $1,000 if any of those teams won the title.One scribe’s ranking of the top 10 players who could be unrestricted free agents July 1: Durant, Leonard, Kyrie Irving, Thompson, Butler, Kemba Walker, Cousins, Middleton, Marc Gasol and Tobias Harris.The N.B.A. playoffs start April 13.Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe rookie shooting guard beat Dennis Smith Jr. of the Knicks in the finals of the 2019 slam dunk contest, but it was a first round dunk that everyone will remember.By Bedel SagetThe 2019 slam dunk contest at the N.B.A.’s All-Star weekend involved several props, but it was Hamidou Diallo’s decision to abandon one that created the dunk that everyone will remember from Saturday night’s competition.Diallo, a rookie shooting guard for the Oklahoma City Thunder, initially rolled a ball rack onto the court for his second attempt of the first round. He decided that wasn’t right, so he asked “the biggest person in the building” to step into the lane instead.What ensued was a remarkable display of athleticism and creativity. After running up and going into a deep crouch, Diallo exploded into the air, leaping over Shaquille O’Neal, the 7-foot-1 Hall of Fame center, clearing the big man’s head, and finishing the dunk with his hand plunged deep inside the basket. 🚨 SUPERMAN ALERT! 🚨Hamidou Diallo leaps over @SHAQ and finishes with the HONEY DIP DUNK for a 5⃣0⃣! 😤😤#ATTSlamDunk #StateFarmSaturday @NBAonTNT pic.twitter.com/izASQbFDYCThe dunk, which received a perfect score of 50 from the judges, managed to be an homage to two of the best dunks of Vince Carter’s career. Carter notoriously jumped over the head of Frederic Weis in the middle of a game at the 2000 Olympics and he hung from his elbow after finishing one of his dunks on his way to a win in the 2000 dunk contest. Unsurprisingly, the dunk became a sensation online. The video of it on the N.B.A.’s Instagram page has generated more than four million views, which according to the league makes it their most viewed video of the All-Star weekend to this point.Diallo went on to beat Dennis Smith Jr. of the Knicks in the finals to be crowned the 2019 slam dunk contest champion.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanWith just over 40 seconds left to play in a fairly meaningless game between the playoff-bound Oklahoma City Thunder and the lottery-bound Los Angeles Lakers on Tuesday, Isaac Bonga, a 19-year-old Lakers rookie, badly missed a 15-foot shot. Russell Westbrook, the veteran Thunder guard, snatched the ball out of the air for a defensive rebound.“That’s for Nipsey!” he declared, referring to the rapper Nipsey Hussle, whose fatal shooting over the weekend seemed to shake many N.B.A. players.Westbrook’s presence on the floor in the closing moments of an easy 119-103 home victory for the Thunder would usually have been odd, but on this night the modern master of the triple-double was out there to grab his 20th rebound of the night.Combined with his 20 points and 21 assists, the rebound made Westbrook the second 20-20-20 player in N.B.A. history, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. He joined Wilt Chamberlain, who had 22 points, 25 rebounds and 21 assists on Feb. 2, 1968.Over the last few years, Westbrook’s triple-doubles have come so frequently that it is hard for one to stand out. He is in line for his third consecutive season of averaging a triple-double; Oscar Robertson, the only other player to compile such an average, did it just once. And along the way, Westbrook has set the record for triple-doubles in a season (42 in 2016-17) while recording a stunning 98 of them over a three-season span.It was clear that Westbrook was headed for an interesting night when he recorded 10 assists in the first quarter.Westbrook, a 30-year-old All-Star, had previously reached 20 rebounds in a game just once in his career, and he had topped 20 assists just four times. In his closest previous attempt at a 20-20-20 game, he had 17 points, 18 rebounds and 17 assists in a win over the Lakers during the 2016-17 season. No player other than Westbrook and Chamberlain has had even an 18-18-18 game.In a postgame interview Tuesday, Westbrook described himself as humbled by the experience and brought the conversation back to Hussle.“That wasn’t for me,” Westbrook said of the performance. “That was for my bro — that was for Nipsey. Twenty plus twenty plus twenty.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt Stevens and Kevin DraperThe Utah Jazz permanently banned a fan who they said aggressively taunted Russell Westbrook, one of the N.B.A.’s premier players, during a game Monday night in an incident that has prompted discussions about fan racism and player security.Westbrook, the star guard of the Oklahoma City Thunder, said the fan directed “disrespectful” and “racial” comments toward him. “A young man and his wife in the stands told me to get down on my knees ‘like you used to,’ ” Westbrook said.In a video posted on Twitter by a reporter for The Deseret News, Westbrook, who is black, can be seen using expletives to say that he will beat up the fan, who appears to be white, and extends the threat to include the man’s wife. The video is about 30 seconds long and does not show the full encounter or what prompted Westbrook, a guard for the visiting Oklahoma City Thunder, to react to the fan.After the game, Westbrook told reporters that the man had said “disrespectful things” about him and his family that he thought were “racial” and suggested that the video posted online lacked important context.He acknowledged that he had threatened to beat up the fan’s wife but said he had “never put his hand on a woman” and “never will.” He also stood by his actions, saying, “If I had to do it over again, I would say the same exact thing.”On Tuesday afternoon, the N.B.A. announced that it had fined Westbrook $25,000 “for directing profanity and threatening language to a fan.” The announcement came shortly after the Jazz, in a statement, said the fan would be permanently banned from all events at Vivint Smart Home Arena because of “excessive and derogatory verbal abuse directed at a player.” The team said it had conducted an investigation that included reviews of video and eyewitness accounts.The confrontation between Westbrook and the Jazz fan — who has presented a starkly different description of the episode — is the latest in a series of incidents that spotlight how fans treat athletes and the sometimes explosive consequences that can result, issues that both Westbrook and the N.B.A. have frequently been at the center of.“There’s no protection for the players,” Westbrook said in his postgame comments, which were transcribed by a reporter for The Salt Lake Tribune and later provided to The New York Times by the Thunder, who otherwise didn’t comment on the incident. “I think there are a lot of great fans who like to come to the game and enjoy the game. And then there are people that come to the game to say disrespectful things about me, my family.”Westbrook’s teammates backed his account of the interaction. Raymond Felton told reporters that he had overheard the comments made by the fan and said they were “totally disrespectful.” Patrick Patterson appeared to confirm Westbrook’s account of events on Twitter, and wrote that “fans are protected in every way possible but not us.”Multiple news outlets identified the Jazz fan as Shane Keisel. Keisel told ESPN that he did not swear at Westbrook or otherwise say anything inappropriate, and that he believed they were having fun. In an interview with local television station KSL, Keisel said Westbrook had been using profanity and “acting a fool,” which fans responded to by heckling him.Keisel said he saw Westbrook’s knees wrapped in towels, so he told him to “sit down and ice your knees, bro.” Westbrook responded that the wraps were for heat, Keisel said, adding that he then told Westbrook, “Well, you’re going to need it.” Keiser said the woman sitting next to him, who ESPN identified as his wife, Jennifer Huff, did not say anything to Westbrook and had her hands in her lap.Attempts to reach Keisel on Tuesday were unsuccessful.Keisel was sitting in the third row on the baseline, near the Thunder bench. Unlike in most other sports, in basketball fans can sit just a few feet away from players. This can lead to good-natured and spirited exchanges — like the back-and-forth heckling between Spike Lee and Reggie Miller in the 1990s — but also to large problems.Most infamous is what is known as The Malice at the Palace in 2004. After a brawl between the Indiana Pacers and Detroit Pistons at The Palace of Auburn Hills in Detroit, a fan threw a drink at Ron Artest, a Pacers forward at the time who has since changed his name to Metta World Peace. Artest charged into the stands, followed closely by teammate Stephen Jackson, and threw a punch at a fan. Artest was suspended for 86 games, and five players eventually pleaded no contest to misdemeanor assault charges.Since the incident, the N.B.A. has taken numerous steps to prevent violence, especially between players and fans. Players are now automatically suspended if they leave the bench during an on-court altercation, and fans whose unacceptable conduct is overheard by or reported to security are issued cards warning them that they can be ejected from the arena.In a statement after the game, the Jazz said arena security issued several warning cards to fans during the game.Westbrook has had a number of run-ins with fans in the past, including in Salt Lake City. During last year’s playoffs, Westbrook twice got into it with fans while leaving the court. The first time he stepped toward and yelled at a fan that was leaning over the railing talking to him; the second time Westbrook swiped at a phone that a fan had pushed toward his face.“Here in Utah, a lot of disrespectful, vulgar things are said to the players here with these fans,” Westbrook said after that game. Afterward, Jazz officials said that their arena security was adequate, and updated their in-arena video message about fan behavior.Last month in Denver, a child sitting in the front row gave Westbrook a small shove as he landed out of bounds. Westbrook bent over and calmly spoke to a man nearby and the child, patting him on the knee and shaking his hand before returning to the game. “I told his dad, ‘Be careful, man. You can’t have your son just hitting random people,’ ” Westbrook said after that game.Westbrook also pushed a fan who confronted him on the court after a game in Denver last year, and was fined $25,000 for shouting a vulgarity at a Dallas Mavericks fan in 2016.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a career-high 37 points in his first start of the season and the Portland Trail Blazers secured the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference with a dramatic 136-131 victory over the Sacramento Kings using just six players Wednesday night.The Blazers have won 14 of 17 games en route to their sixth straight trip to the playoffs. Portland will open the postseason against the Oklahoma City Thunder, who finished in sixth.Portland had already clinched homecourt advantage in the opening round with a 104-101 victory over the Los Angeles Lakers the night before.Denver beat the Timberwolves 99-95 Wednesday night, locking the Nuggets into the No. 2 seed and a first-round series against San Antonio, and giving Portland the opening to claim the third seed. The Jazz secured the No. 4 seed and will play fifth-seeded Houston.Portland trailed by 28 points during the second half but made it interesting in the fourth quarter by closing within 117-116 with 7:53 left on Simon's 3-pointer. Simons found Jake Layman for an alley-oop dunk to pull the Blazers in front.Portland pushed the lead to 128-119 on Layman's basket with 2:49 left. Simons hit his seventh 3-pointer to make it 131-123 with just over two minutes left and Sacramento couldn't catch up.Marvin Bagley III had 20 points to lead the Kings, who lost their 11th straight game in Portland.Blazers coach Terry Stotts said before the game that guard CJ McCollum would rest because it was the second of a back-to-back. McCollum missed 10 games with a left knee injury and had just been back for Portland's last two games.As for his other players, Stotts said going in that it was "fluid." Damian Lillard was available but did not play. Neither did any of the team's other regular starters, as Stotts went with Skal Labissiere, Layman, Meyers Leonard, Gary Trent, Jr. and Simons. Trent, Simons and Labissiere were making their first starts of the season."Our goal was to get homecourt, which we got. Whatever happens tonight, happens," Stotts said. "If you overthink it, you get in trouble."The Kings' season is over, but coach Dave Joerger said he was encouraged."We haven't been great for the last couple of weeks, but I don't want that to dull the shine on what has been a terrific season of development and competitiveness, and competitive spirit, of laying down a foundation and an identity, a lot of success and a lot of good moments," Joerger said. "I feel good about that, and I feel good about where we can be in the future."The Kings stayed with their regular starters and went up by 11 points in the opening quarter. They extended the lead to 26 points during the second and were up 87-62 at the break. Da'Aaron Fox led the Kings with 17 points and nine assists at halftime.Joerger went to his reserves in the second half.TIP-INSKings: Joerger was asked before the game why the Kings had not won in Portland since 2012. He replied: "LaMarcus Aldridge, Damian Lillard, CJ McCollum, Wesley Matthews."Trail Blazers: Sacramento's 87 first-half points were the most Portland had allowed in the half this season. ... Simons became just the 11th rookie in franchise history to have a 30-point game.UP NEXTSacramento's season is over.The Trail Blazers will face the Oklahoma City Thunder in a game TBD.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. PlayoffsBy The Associated PressThe Boston Celtics have been at their best this season when they are forcing turnovers, spacing the floor and knocking down outside shots.They found out in their win at home against the Pacers that they were equipped to win an ugly, physical game as well.Irving and Marcus Morris each scored 20 points, and the Celtics rallied in the second half to beat the Indiana Pacers, 84-74, on Sunday in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.Jayson Tatum finished with 15 points for fourth-seeded Boston, and Al Horford added 10 points and 11 rebounds, and Gordon Hayward had 10 points. It was the first playoff game since 2017 for Irving and Hayward after each missed last year’s postseason with injuries.“I just try to be aggressive on the ball, be in the right spots,” Irving said. “I just really want to be aggressive and really be the head of the snake.”Game 2 is Wednesday night in Boston.The fifth-seeded Pacers led by 11 points in the first half but had just 8 in the third quarter. The Celtics capitalized and led by as many as 22 in the fourth. Indiana finished with a season-worst 29 points in the second half.Cory Joseph had 14 points for the Pacers, and Bojan Bogdanovic was their lone starter in double figures with 12 points.Both teams shot worse than 40 percent from the field. Boston hit just 36 percent (28 of 77) and had 20 turnovers. Indiana connected on 33 percent of its shots (28 of 84) and turned the ball over 13 times.The Celtics’ 84 points were their fewest of the season; it was the first time Boston scored fewer than 100 points and won.“We held them to 84 points,” Indiana’s Wesley Matthews said. “We just didn’t score enough.”BUCKS 121, PISTONS 86 Giannis Antetokounmpo had 24 points and 17 rebounds in just 24 minutes, and top-seeded Milwaukee routed eighth-seeded Detroit in their East opener.Antetokounmpo ran and dunked all over the visiting Pistons, who caught him only when center Andre Drummond shoved him to the ground late in the third quarter after Antetokounmpo grabbed an offensive rebound with Detroit trailing by 41 points.Drummond was given a flagrant 2 foul and ejected. He threw a kiss to the Fiserv Forum crowd as he was escorted off the court.Antetokounmpo struggled at the free-throw line, making only five of 12 attempts, but was 9 for 17 from the field and 1 of 5 from 3-point range.Luke Kennard paced the Pistons with 21 points off the bench, and Drummond had 12 points and 12 rebounds. Detroit played without forward Blake Griffin, who has a left knee injury.TRAIL BLAZERS 104, THUNDER 99 Damian Lillard scored 30 points and third-seeded Portland opened its Western Conference series against sixth-seeded Oklahoma City Thunder with a win at home.Enes Kanter added 20 points and a career playoff-high 18 rebounds for the Blazers, who are making their sixth straight postseason appearance but had lost eight games in a row over the previous two postseasons. C J McCollum added 24 points.Russell Westbrook had 24 points, 10 assists and 10 rebounds for his ninth career postseason triple-double. Paul George, who was a game-time decision because of a sore shoulder, added 26 points and 10 rebounds after a slow start.Portland led by as many as 19 points in the first half, but the Thunder pulled to 80-77 early in the fourth quarter. Oklahoma City could not get closer, and Lillard hit a 30-footer to extend the Blazers’ lead to 89-81 with 6 minutes 38 seconds left.Westbrook appeared to hurt his right knee or ankle and grimaced while trying to walk it off. Trainers attended to him on the bench at the next timeout but he returned and his layup closed the gap to 91-87 with just under four minutes left.ROCKETS 122, JAZZ 90 James Harden had 29 points and 10 assists to help host Houston rout Utah on Sunday night in Game 1 of their Western Conference series.The fourth-seeded Rockets had a double-digit lead for most of the game, but the fifth-seeded Jazz pulled to 5 behind midway through the third quarter before Houston used a big run to pull away. Rudy Gobert had 22 points and 12 rebounds for the Jazz.It is the second consecutive year these teams have met in the postseason; Houston eliminated Utah in five games in the second round last season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — Russell Westbrook had 27 points, 10 rebounds and 15 assists as the Oklahoma City Thunder beat the Minnesota Timberwolves 132-126 on Sunday.Paul George also scored 27 points and Dennis Schroder had 14 of his 21 in the fourth quarter as the Thunder remained a half-game ahead of San Antonio for seventh place in the Western Conference.Karl-Anthony Towns led Minnesota with 35 points, while Andrew Wiggins scored 24 and Dario Saric added 23. Tyus Jones scored 10 points and tied his career high with 13 assists for.Oklahoma City entered the fourth quarter trailing 97-95, but Schroder scored the final 10 points in a 12-0 run that vaulted the Thunder into a 109-101 lead. Minnesota didn't get closer than four the rest of the way.The Thunder opened the game by making five of their first six shots and led by 14 before Minnesota pushed back and cut the deficit to 38-31 after one. Westbrook and Ferguson scored nine apiece as the Thunder hit 7 of 13 3-point attempts.Trailing 43-34 early in the second, the Wolves went on a 12-3 run to tie the score on Anthony Tolliver's 3-pointer.Later, Towns hit four free throws in an 8-2 run that put Minnesota on top 60-58, but Noel and Grant hit back-to-back shots in the final minute to give the Thunder a 62-60 lead at the break.Oklahoma City made its first six shots of the third quarter, including a 3-pointer and a dunk on consecutive possessions by George. But Wiggins kept Minnesota afloat by making three straight jump shots. Then after Towns dunked twice, Saric hit four straight 3-pointers to put Minnesota on top 89-83.George then scored eight points in the final 40 seconds to cut Minnesota's lead to 97-95 after three.TIP-INSThunder: The victory helped Oklahoma City avoid being swept by the Wolves this season. Minnesota had won the first three in the series this year. ... George has 288 3-pointers this season, the fifth highest single-season total for any player in NBA history. ... Westbrook's triple-double was his 32nd of the season.Timberwolves: Before the game the Timberwolves honored Jones with the Flip Saunders Legacy Award for his contributions to the community. ... Minnesota has scored at least 100 points in a team-record 29 straight games.UP NEXTThunder: Host Houston on Tuesday night.Timberwolves: Host Toronto on Tuesday night.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherKyle Korver, the veteran N.B.A. player, said he was embarrassed by some of his thoughts about race in the past and uncomfortable about the contradictions of being a white player in a largely black sport. And in an essay in The Players’ Tribune, he strongly urged action to redress racism around the N.B.A. and in the United States.In the essay, titled “Privileged,” Korver, who plays for the Utah Jazz, recounted an incident from when he played for the Atlanta Hawks. After a teammate, Thabo Sefolosha, was injured and arrested in New York in 2015, Korver said his first reaction was, “What was Thabo doing out at a club on a back-to-back?” rather than concern about the injury or dismay over the arrest. “I sort of blamed Thabo,” he said.Cringing at that thought today, Korver noted that as a white man, “I probably would’ve been safe on the street that one night in New York.”In March, Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder had an altercation with a fan in Salt Lake City. Korver told a reporter at the time: “You know Russ. He gets into it with the crowd a lot.” But soon after, he heard the full story, that Westbrook heard the fan make “racial” remarks, as Westbrook put it. His teammates shared stories of similar experiences. “Guys were just sick and tired of it all,” he wrote.His words resonated as a white player speaking on race, in a league with predominantly black athletes playing before predominantly white crowds.He noted this position: “I have more in common with the fans in the crowd at your average N.B.A. game than I have with the players on the court.”“I may work with those guys. And I absolutely 100 percent stand with them. But I look like the other guy. And whether I like it or not? I’m beginning to understand how that means something.”The essay drew positive reactions from the world of the N.B.A. and elsewhere.“Salute my brother,” LeBron James said on Twitter. “Means a lot. And like you said, I hope people listen, just open your ears and listen.”Korver, 38, has played for five N.B.A. teams over a career dating to 2003. At his peak, he was one of the game’s best shooters, especially 3-pointers. This season, he is averaging 9 points and 20 minutes a game with the Jazz.His essay wrestles with systemic racism throughout America, and Korver said: “As white people, are we guilty of the sins of our forefathers? No, I don’t think so. But are we responsible for them? Yes, I believe we are.”“It’s about understanding on a fundamental level that black people and white people, they still have it different in America. And that those differences come from an ugly history … not some random divide.”“I believe that what’s happening to people of color in this country — right now, in 2019 — is wrong,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLeBron James, sidelined since Dec. 25 with a groin strain, will remain out until at least next week, the Los Angeles Lakers announced Wednesday. The team said in a statement that James did not travel with the Lakers on their current road trip for games against the Oklahoma City Thunder on Thursday and the Houston Rockets on Saturday.The Lakers have struggled without James — and without Rajon Rondo, their backup point guard, who was also injured in the Lakers’ road win over the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day. Entering Thursday, the Lakers had gone 4-7 without those two players and were tied with the Sacramento Kings for eighth place in the Western Conference standings.[On Pro Basketball: The Warriors Prepare to Add Another Star: DeMarcus Cousins]After their current trip, the Lakers will return home to play the Warriors on Monday — which, incidentally, is slated to be Game 2 of the Warriors’ well-publicized DeMarcus Cousins experiment as he returns from surgery on his Achilles’ tendon — but it is highly unlikely that James will be available. The Lakers said in their statement that James “has been cleared to return to practice commencing next week, and progress toward a return to game play thereafter.”James, 34, had been fairly indestructible thus far in his career. He appeared in all 82 regular-season games for the Cleveland Cavaliers last season. But while the Lakers initially listed James as “day to day” after he underwent a magnetic resonance imaging exam last month, the team has been handling him — and his eventual return — with caution.James was playing some of the best basketball of his career before he got hurt, averaging 27.3 points, 8.3 rebounds and 7.1 assists a game. A four-time N.B.A. most valuable player, he is in the first year of a four-year contract worth $154 million.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherHere’s a fact that is pretty obvious. When the point spread on a game is big, the favorite usually wins.In the 39 N.B.A. games since 2003 with a spread of 18 or higher, the favorite won them all, according to the Teamrankings.com database.It wasn’t quite an 18-point spread when the Golden State Warriors faced the Phoenix Suns on Sunday night, but it was close. Depending on where you gamble, the Warriors were favored by 16 to 17 points. Games in that range are still won by the favorites 97 percent of the time.Few should have been surprised by the big line on Sunday. The Suns are bad, going into the game with a record of 15-52, worse than anyone but the Knicks. And the Warriors are the Warriors. Not only that, but the game was being played at Golden State.The chance of an upset had shrunk from microscopic to infinitesimal at the 2:58 mark of the first quarter when the Warriors led by 16 points. A ho-hum blowout seemed to be in the offing.The Suns won the game.Devin Booker had 37 points and 11 assists in the shocking victory. “We came in, we fought, we were down 16,” forward Kelly Oubre Jr. told The Arizona Republic. “We still fought. We came up with a big win against the best team in the N.B.A.”The Suns are actually on a bit of a roll, having won five of their last seven. Don’t start checking the playoff race though: Those wins came immediately after a franchise-worst 17-game losing streak.And cynical Suns fans don’t have to worry either. The team is still three games away from slipping out of the bottom three, the teams that have an equal chance of nabbing the No. 1 pick in the draft, probably Zion Williamson of Duke.It was the first Suns win over the Warriors since November 2014. That was 18 straight games of futility against Golden State, the longest active losing streak by one team against another.Klay Thompson of the Warriors (10-for-22 for 28 points) had a curious take afterward, pointing a finger at the home fans. “I expect our crowd to be a little more into it,” he said. “At least you could stand up or something when we make a good play, especially at the beginning. We need that energy, especially at this time of year. Its hard to conjure up energy every single night.”The Warriors, who have the third best record in the league but are still the heavy championship favorites, had better get some energy in a hurry. They now go on a four-game road trip with a much tougher lineup of foes, starting with the Houston Rockets and Oklahoma City Thunder. Their top seed in the West — they are currently a game and a half ahead of the Denver Nuggets — could be under threat.The Suns will miss the playoffs for the ninth straight year (the second longest streak after the Kings). But they will always have the night they won as 17-point underdogs. Outright.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressKyrie Irving scored 37 points and the Boston Celtics rallied late in the fourth quarter to beat the Indiana Pacers by 99-91 on Wednesday night. The win gave Boston a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven, first-round seriesComing out of a timeout and with a chance to tie, the Pacers’ Wesley Matthews threw an inbounds pass into the bench on the other side of the court with 12.1 seconds left. On the ensuing play, the Celtics’ Al Horford passed to Jayson Tatum, who was fouled on a two-handed dunk. He completed the three-point play to make it 97-91 with 8.8 seconds left.The Pacers turned it over again and the Celtics were able to close out the game at the free throw line.Tatum scored 26 points, including a thunderous dunk down the stretch to help punctuate a 10-0 run by Boston over the final five minutes.[Read: Jayson Tatum has a daily reminder of the booming dunk he delivered on LeBron James last year.]Bojan Bogdanovic led Indiana with 23 points. Thaddeus Young added 15 points.Indiana led by 79-68 entering the fourth. Horford opened the final period scoring on a hook shot in the lane and Tyreke Evans responded with a 3-pointer on Indiana’s first possession.But then Boston caught fire, using a 16-0 run, including eight straight by Irving, to take an 86-82 lead with 5:04 to play. Indiana missed 10 straight shots during the run, finally breaking a nearly eight-minute scoring drought with a 3-pointer by Matthews in front of the Celtics’ bench.Horford had been a game-time decision with an illness, but was able to remain in the Celtics’ starting lineup. He was noticeably a step slower at the outset and didn’t take his first shot until late in the second quarter. He didn’t score his first points until the fourth, finishing with four points, 10 rebounds and four assists for the game.Game 3 is Friday in Indiana.BUCKS 120, PISTONS 99 Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points in Milwaukee’s big third quarter and the Bucks beat the Detroit Pistons, 120-99, on Wednesday night to take a 2-0 lead in the first-round playoff series.Eric Bledsoe led the Bucks with 27 points, and Khris Middleton had 24. Milwaukee is trying win a playoff series for the first time since 2001.Luke Kennard had 19 points for Detroit. Reggie Jackson and Andre Drummond each added 18, and Drummond had 16 rebounds. Detroit star Blake Griffin sat out again with a left knee injury, but received a technical for the second straight game for arguing from the bench.After scoring 10 points and playing only 14 minutes in the first half because of foul trouble, Antetokounmpo scored Milwaukee’s first seven points in the third quarter. The Bucks outscored Detroit 35-17 in the period to take a 93-76 lead into the fourth.Detroit clawed within seven in the fourth before the Bucks put it away, capped by a hard drive by Antetokounmpo on a break. He banked in an awkward reverse-angle shot while crashing to the floor after being fouled by Drummond. He competed the three-point play it make it 105-87.Game 3 is Saturday night in Detroit.GRIZZLIES HIRE EXECUTIVES The Memphis Grizzlies have hired Rich Cho as vice president of basketball strategy and Glen Grunwald as a senior adviser within the franchise’s basketball operations department.Cho is a former Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers general manager. Grunwald was general manager of the Knicks and the Toronto Raptors.Before coming to Portland, Cho was an assistant general manager with the Seattle SuperSonics and continued in that role when the franchise became the Oklahoma City Thunder. Grunwald worked with the Knicks from 2006-13, serving as executive vice president and general manager for the final two seasons of that stretch. He was Toronto’s general manager from 1997 to 2004.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinCarmelo Anthony will finally secure his escape from the Houston Rockets on Tuesday when the Rockets complete a trade that sends the former All-Star to the Chicago Bulls, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.The Bulls have no intention of playing Anthony but could elect to keep him until the Feb. 7 trade deadline and use him in another potential deal, according to the person, who was not authorized to discuss the trade publicly.The trade with Chicago, which is also expected to include some minor draft compensation, could not be executed Monday because the league office was closed in observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day. But the Rockets, as first reported by ESPN, offered an undisclosed amount of cash to convince the Bulls to take on the remainder of Anthony’s $2.4 million salary for this season, which will result in a luxury-tax savings of $2.6 million for Houston.Anthony, 34, has been in search of a new team since Nov. 11, when The New York Times first reported that the former Knick’s time with the Rockets was coming to an end after just 10 games together.Houston formally announced on Nov. 15 that the sides were “parting ways” but has kept Anthony on the roster for the past two months in hopes of trading him rather than outright releasing him, thus avoiding the luxury-tax hit.Whether Anthony stays on Chicago’s roster until Feb. 7 or becomes a free agent sooner than that, his challenge remains finding a team willing to give him another shot after failed stints with Houston and the Oklahoma City Thunder. Concerns about Anthony’s defense and his ability to shed his ball-dominant ways of the past and adapt to a catch-and-shoot role have resulted in scant interest in him despite his accomplished résumé.The Times reported last month that the Los Angeles Lakers, the Philadelphia 76ers and the Charlotte Hornets are among the teams that have weighed but ultimately resisted pursuing Anthony since the Rockets sent him away from the team.The Rockets spent the weekend trying to find a new home for Anthony via trade to create a roster spot for the veteran big man Kenneth Faried, who signed with Houston on Monday after securing a contract buyout from the Nets on Friday.Trades can happen on weekends and holidays but only if the league office is given notice that a deal is in the works by 6 p.m. on the most recent business day. As a result, Houston was forced to release the swingman James Nunnally to create the roster room to add Faried.The Rockets are hoping Faried can help fill the void created by a thumb injury to starting center Clint Capela, who is expected to be sidelined for at least a month after undergoing surgery last week.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOKLAHOMA CITY — Russell Westbrook called his play in Game 2 "unacceptable."It was more than acceptable in Game 3. He had 33 points and 11 assists and the Oklahoma City Thunder beat the Portland Trail Blazers 120-108 on Friday night to cut their series deficit to 2-1.Thunder forward Paul George called Westbrook a man of his word."He led, we got behind him and he put us on his back," George said.George scored 22 points, Jerami Grant had 18 and Dennis Schroder 17 for the Thunder. They will host Game 4 of the best-of-seven series on Sunday night.Damian Lillard scored 32 points, but he had just three in the fourth quarter after scoring 25 in the third. He made 8 of 11 shots in the third quarter, but missed all four of his field goals in the fourth."Their defense pretty much stayed the same," Lillard said of Oklahoma City's fourth-quarter strategy. "They got a little more aggressive on the ball. Instead of just trying to stay in front of me, they were coming up a little higher."C.J. McCollum had 21 points and Enes Kanter added 19 for the Trail Blazers.Oklahoma City closed the second quarter on a 10-1 run to take a 49-39 lead. Lillard was held to four points on 2 -for-6 shooting and the Trail Blazers shot 37.5% in the half.George hit a 3-pointer, was fouled and made the free throw in the opening minutes of the second half to push Oklahoma City's lead to 55-43. Westbrook backed down Lillard, hit a bank shot and was fouled. Westbrook brought out his "rock the baby" celebration, then made the free throw to put Oklahoma City up by 15."I didn't even see him do it," Lillard said. "A lot of times, I'm waiting for the ball to be inbounded, so I'm not looking at what's going on the other way. So rock the baby on a jump shot? I mean, you can do that all day."Whether Lillard was inspired or not, he scored 23 points the rest of the quarter to help cut Oklahoma City's lead to 86-82 at the end of the period. McCollum hit a 3-pointer to tie the game at 89 early in the fourth.Oklahoma City regained control, then kept it. Westbrook hit a wild 26-foot 3-pointer over Lillard with 1:20 to go that put the Thunder up by 14, then he told Lillard all about it.TIP-INSTrail Blazers: Westbrook usually says "Next question" when Oklahoman columnist Berry Tramel asks him anything. During the pregame media session, Portland coach Terry Stotts went up to the podium with a smile, looked at Tramel and said, "Go ahead, Berry. I'll answer your question," drawing laughter from the reporters. Westbrook gave Tramel his typical response after the game. ... F Maurice Harkless was called for a technical in the final minute for throwing his headband.Thunder: Derek Williamson of Midwest City, Oklahoma, had 24 seconds to make a half-court shot for $20,000 from MidFirst Bank. He drained his last try. Later, Jesse Norman of Prague, Oklahoma, made one for another $20,000. ... Grant hit a 3-pointer in the opening minute after missing his first eight in the series. ... Westbrook was called for a technical in the final minute.CONTROVERSIAL DUNKGeorge threw down a monster dunk right after time expired that didn't count.Lillard wasn't impressed."Typically people say you shouldn't do stuff like that, but honestly, I really couldn't care less," he said. "The game had been decided. If that's something that they needed to do to make themselves feel more dominant or feel better, then so be it."REVERSING COURSEThe Thunder made 10 of 61 3-pointers in the first two games in Portland. They made 15 of 29 in Game 3.Grant made 4 of 5 3s and guard Terrance Ferguson made 3 of 4 attempts."They've been hitting shots all year," Westbrook said. "I'm going to make the right play. The guys on the floor made the right play and I'm going to continue to trust my teammates."______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherIt was a humble TV listing, informing readers that the Knicks would be playing the Washington Bullets on MSG that night. The short item noted that “The Knicks tried double-teaming Jeff Ruland in the second of those games, but the tactic didn’t work: He responded with a triple double-digit effort — 22 points, 12 rebounds and 10 assists.”It was Dec. 29, 1984. And for the very first time, The New York Times had cited the triple-double.On Monday night, Russell Westbrook completed an unprecedented 10th consecutive triple-double, with 21 points, 14 rebounds and 11 assists as the Oklahoma City Thunder defeated the Portland Trail Blazers. Westbrook broke the record of nine, set by Wilt Chamberlain in 1968.The moment Russ passed Wilt for the longest triple-double streak 🔥 pic.twitter.com/xTytZdyzDdBut while triple-doubles are no longer uncommon — Westbrook’s teammate Paul George turned in an even more immpressive line (47 points, 10 rebounds, 12 assists) on Monday — the term is relatively new. Like Chamberlain, some of the greatest practitioners made every one of their triple-doubles when triple-doubles were not even a thing.The Times quickly embraced the triple-double. Two days after its debut, the label made it into an ordinary sports article, this time without the clunky words “digit” or “effort.” Precedent had been set.In those early days, some of the references to triple-double in The Times were in quotes, as if editors were afraid that the new term would pollute the newspaper’s august pages. Eventually the arbiters of style settled on no quotes, and a hyphen in between the two words.The first triple-double in Basketball-Reference’s database is from 1950, when Andy Phillip of the Philadelphia Warriors tallied 17 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists, although there were almost certainly others before that when stat keeping was less precise and complete.Harvey Pollack, the longtime 76ers stats guru, is generally credited with inventing the term in the early 1980s, inspired by Magic Johnson, who made a habit of triple-doubling. (Ruland, though he was the Times’s triple-double pioneer, claimed only five in his career.)There are also double-doubles — the career record is held by Chamberlain — and quadruple doubles, for those who can also manage 10 blocks or steals. That has only happened a handful of times in the N.B.A., and not since David Robinson in 1994.There are even quintuple doubles, a stupefying exploit — 25 points, 18 rebounds, 11 assists, 10 steals and 10 blocks — performed by the women’s star Tamika Catchings when she was in high school in 1997.Westbrook has taken the triple-double to new heights, though, actually averaging a triple-double for the last two seasons. He is on pace to do so again this season. And unlike his early predecessors, he is keenly aware of the stat, often looking to add that one more assist or rebound that he needs late in a game.Westbrook now has 127 total triple-doubles, closing in on Johnson, the inspiration for the term, who has 138.But above all of them is Oscar Robertson, the only other man to average a triple-double; he had 181 in his Hall of Fame career.His last one came in 1974, when the feat was still unnamed, at least in The Times.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — At the end of a disastrous season in which the Los Angeles Lakers failed to make the playoffs, despite having added LeBron James via free agency, Magic Johnson made the stunning announcement on Tuesday that he was stepping down as the team’s president of basketball operations.Johnson delivered the news at an impromptu news conference before the Lakers’ regular-season finale, against the Portland Trail Blazers, and he said he had not yet informed Jeanie Buss, the team’s controlling owner. In fact, he had told nearly no one before he addressed a mass of hastily assembled reporters.“I couldn’t face her to tell her,” he said, referring to Buss. He later added that he would find her at Staples Center to address her in person.Earvin, I loved working side by side with you. You’ve brought us a long way. We will continue the journey. We love you 💜💛 https://t.co/ofmQl6BtBzLater, the team released a statement, calling Johnson “not only a Lakers icon, but our family.”[Magic Johnson’s biggest moments running the Lakers.]“There is no greater Los Angeles Laker than Earvin Johnson,” the statement read, using Johnson’s formal name. “We are deeply grateful to Magic for all that he has done for our franchise — as a player, an ambassador and an executive.”The statement continued, “As we begin the process of moving forward, we will work in a measured and methodical fashion to make the right moves for the future of our organization.”“Measured” and “methodical” would be an about-face from the way Johnson stepped down. It was a surreal scene as he fielded questions for nearly 45 minutes after he made his announcement, appearing to hold back tears at times, and repeatedly said that he loved Buss like a sister. He then posed for pictures with team employees, former teammates and a local news anchor.“I want to go back to having fun,” Johnson, 59, said. “I want to go back to being who I was before taking on this job, and we’re halfway there with LeBron coming. I think this summer, with that other star coming in — whoever’s going to come in — I think this team is going to be in position to really contend for a championship with the growth of the other young players.”Johnson was named to the post in February 2017 and said at the time that it was “a dream come true.” But on Tuesday he said that he wanted to get back to being a mentor and a businessman, and that he had felt limited in his ability to do those things in his current role.For example, he said he was upset that he could not attend Dwyane Wade’s final game for the Miami Heat on Tuesday night — or congratulate Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder on Twitter for finishing the regular season averaging another triple-double. (Johnson said the league would have considered it “tampering.”)Johnson also said that he had received a phone call last week from the tennis star Serena Williams, asking if he would be an adviser to her.“When Serena called me, wow, that’s who I am,” Johnson said. “I love helping people.”He added: “I like to be free. And then I got a great life outside of this. What am I doing? I got a beautiful life, so I’m going to go back to that beautiful life, and I’m looking forward to it.”But there is palace intrigue at play, too — these are the Lakers, after all — and Johnson strongly indicated that he had been leaning toward firing Coach Luke Walton. Buss, though, is known to think highly of Walton, a former Laker who has been the team’s coach for three seasons, and Johnson suggested that he did not want to go through with it.“I would have to affect someone’s livelihood and their life,” Johnson said, “and I thought about that. That’s not fun for me. That’s not who I am, and then I don’t want to put her in the middle of us, even though she said, ‘Hey, do what you want to do.’ I know she has great love for him.”The Lakers, who have been downtrodden in recent years, are still one of the most glamorous franchises in the league, and Johnson, who helped the Lakers win five championships as a Hall of Fame point guard, remains one of the organization’s most popular figures.Johnson was hired to replace Jim Buss, the brother of Jeanie Buss. Johnson, who had previously been a partial owner of the team as well, worked alongside Rob Pelinka, a former agent, who was brought in as the team’s general manager. (Johnson said that he had not told Pelinka of his decision to step down, either.)While Johnson had some memorable moments at the helm of the Lakers’ operation, the roster that he and Pelinka built around James was widely considered inadequate. After losing to Portland in their finale, the Lakers had a record of 37-45, which assured them of missing the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season. It is the first losing effort by a James-led team since the star forward’s rookie season in 2003-04, when his Cleveland Cavaliers went 35-47.On Tuesday, Johnson preached patience.“I’m excited about the direction,” he said before he headed out the door.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressHOUSTON — The Utah Jazz tried to force the left-handed James Harden to his right to make things more difficult on him on Game 1 of their first-round playoff series against the Houston Rockets on Sunday night.Didn't matter much to Harden and the Rockets though. He still led the team in scoring and helped facilitate solid offensive nights from everyone else in the starting lineup in the lopsided win.Harden had 29 points and 10 assists to help the Rockets rout the Jazz 122-90 in the opener of the best-of-seven series.Houston's entire starting lineup had at least 10 points. Eric Gordon had 17, Clint Capela scored 16, Chris Paul added 14 and P.J. Tucker had 11."They throw something at him and they might get him a little bit and he figures it out and they don't get him anymore," coach Mike D'Antoni said about the defensive strategy on Harden. "He's so good offensively it makes me laugh. He's just so good I don't know what you do ... you're not stopping him. I don't care what you do."Harden wasn't surprised at Utah's defensive tactic."I've seen literally every defense you can possibly see," he said. "So it was just a matter of adjusting and continuing to communicate with the guys of what spots they needed to be in."The Rockets had a double-digit lead for most of the game, but the Jazz got within five points midway through the third quarter before Houston used a big run to pull away and sail to the victory."The third quarter we got some stops and we didn't get shots on the other end and that's tough to overcome," Jazz coach Quin Snyder said.It's the second consecutive year the teams have met in the postseason after the Rockets eliminated Utah in five games in the second round last season.Game 2 is Wednesday night in Houston.Houston was up by 15 in the fourth quarter before Harden, who had eight rebounds, scored six points in a 9-2 run that stretched the lead to 108-86 with four minutes left and both teams cleared their benches about a minute after that.Rudy Gobert had 22 points and 12 rebounds to lead the Jazz after not scoring more than 15 points in a game in the playoff series against the Rockets last season. Donovan Mitchell had 19 points, but did not have an assist as the Jazz went long stretches without scoring.Mitchell was disappointed with his assist-to-turnover ratio."No assists. Five turnovers. That's huge," he said. "You can't have no assists and five turnovers."Ricky Rubio started after missing four of the last five games of the regular season with a quadriceps injury. Rubio, who finished with 15 points, didn't play against Houston in the playoffs last season after injuring his hamstring in a first-round series win over the Oklahoma City Thunder.Houston had a 12-point lead entering the fourth quarter and an 8-0 spurt, with two 3-pointers from Danuel House, extended it to 95-75 with nine minutes remaining.The Rockets led by 17 when Harden re-entered the game about a minute later. Soon after he returned he found House behind the 3-point line in the corner and drove to the basket and finished with a one-handed slam.The Rockets were up by 15 at halftime, but Utah opened the second half with a 10-3 run, with six points from Gobert, to cut it to 62-54 with nine minutes left in the third.The Jazz got within five with a shot from Mitchell later in the third, before the Rockets scored next 10 points, with a 3 from Gordon and a three-point play from Harden, to make it 76-61 with about four minutes left in the quarter.Mitchell ended a Utah scoring drought of about 4 ½ minutes after that with a 3-pointer, but Harden hit a 3 seconds later to leave the Rockets up 79-64.Utah cut into the lead a bit after that and trailed 83-71 after three.TIP-INSJazz: Derrick Favors had 13 points. ... Utah went 7 for 27 on 3s. ... The Jazz had 18 turnovers. ... Jae Crowder scored nine points off the bench.Rockets: D'Antoni was back on the sideline after missing Houston's last three regular-season games with an intestinal virus. ... Hall of Famer and former Rocket Hakeem Olajuwon watched the game from a courtside seat. ... Houston made 15 3-pointers, led by four from Harden.CAPELA'S HEALTHCapela played despite dealing with an upper respiratory infection that kept him out of practice two days this week. Houston's center said he still wasn't feeling great and hopes he's better by Wednesday."It was hard," he said. "I would say it was probably my toughest game ... it felt kind of hard to breathe like I'm used to."THEY SAID ITMitchell on moving on after the blowout loss: "Honestly we could have won this game by 90 or lost this game by 90 ... for us it's just about making adjustments and not overreacting to what happened."UP NEXTAfter Game 2 on Wednesday the series moves to Utah for Game 3 on Saturday and Game 4 on April 22.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaPaul George has a small freshwater pond behind his house in Oklahoma City that he stocks with bass, crappie and bluegill. Whenever he has a couple of hours to spare from his responsibilities as a do-everything forward for the N.B.A.’s Thunder, he heads out back with his fishing rod. He releases what he catches — for now, anyway.“Waiting for them to get a little bigger,” he said.George has time. Last summer, on the first night of free agency, he agreed to re-sign with the Thunder on a four-year, $137 million deal. The news emanated from a house party that Russell Westbrook, his superstar teammate, was hosting for George, who did not even entertain meetings with rival teams. He was sticking with the Thunder.In doing so, George made clear that he was banking on his partnership with Westbrook while offering endorsements of the organization and of Oklahoma City’s leisurely pace. He can fish. He can raise his two young children in a quiet neighborhood. And he can focus on basketball, knowing that his future is with the Thunder.“You can give your everything to one organization, and you know the direction that you’re going,” George said in a recent interview. “There’s so much that players have to deal with that I don’t think people quite recognize. A lot of them are the same issues that everybody else deals with. But this takes a lot of the burden off my shoulders.”There is something to be said for (relatively) stress-free living. As several other stars careen toward free agency this summer — and grapple with the accompanying distractions with varying degrees of success — George, 28, has been playing the best basketball of his life.He is averaging 28.2 points, 8.1 rebounds and 4.2 assists, all career highs, while shooting 44 percent from the field and 39.1 percent from 3-point range. He is at least in the conversation for his first N.B.A. Most Valuable Player Award.“I think the shift I’ve seen,” Coach Billy Donovan said, “is a guy who’s a lot more comfortable.”George has been limited recently by shoulder soreness, and Oklahoma City has slipped a bit in the standings. But the Thunder are capable of being a force in the playoffs, and they appear to be a close-knit group. One reason: Oklahoma City is not exactly flush with “extracurriculars,” as George put it, so the players tend to linger at the practice facility. They spend a lot of time together, which has helped build chemistry.“And if one person has to go do something, there’s always someone else who’s like, ‘I’ll tag along with you,’” George said. “That’s kind of been the culture here.”George was traded to the Thunder before the start of last season, after he told the Indiana Pacers that he would not sign a contract extension. Most figured that Oklahoma City would be a pit stop for George, who grew up in Palmdale, Calif., about 50 miles north of Los Angeles. More to the point: He had told the Pacers that he wanted to be shipped to the Lakers.Indiana balked and instead dealt him to Oklahoma City, where George averaged 21.9 points and 5.7 rebounds last season. After Oklahoma City lost in the first round of the playoffs, George was a free agent. He could have gone nearly anywhere, including to the Lakers.“I had so many phone calls and people asking me what he would do when it was all still up in the air,” Tom Hegre, his former coach at Knight High School, said in a telephone interview. “But I personally felt that he would stay with the Thunder. I just didn’t think he would bail on something before he gave it a legitimate chance.”Hegre also said he suspected that Oklahoma City itself had something to do with George’s decision. Even now, after six All-Star appearances, George is a small-town guy and a self-described “homebody.”Back in his high school days, George and his father would occasionally ask Hegre if the team was planning to practice over the weekend. Hegre knew that meant they were thinking about going fishing. They had their favorite spots: Hughes Lake, Lake Elsinore, Lopez Lake, Little Rock Reservoir.“I always thought that was pretty cool,” Hegre said.George has never played in a major market. Not in high school (Palmdale). Not in college (Fresno State). And not in the N.B.A., which may not be a coincidence. When he was with the Pacers, George lived in a suburban community with a large lake, where he kept a boat. He fished there, too.At the same time, his exit from Indiana affected him. It was the first time he felt disliked by the masses, and he was someone who had always tried hard to avoid disappointing or hurting people, said Steve Cleveland, his former coach at Fresno State.When George told Cleveland that he was entering the N.B.A. draft after two seasons at Fresno State, he was apologetic — and so were his parents, who kept apologizing even after George began to star for the Pacers.“I had to say, ‘Stop it,’” Cleveland said. “But that’s the type of people they are.”He added: “I’ve never really asked him this, but I’m sure leaving Indiana was a pretty sensitive deal for him. And I don’t think he wanted to go through all that stress again.”It is not hard to find big-time players who have come unglued at times because of their impending free agencies. Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors boycotted the news media for a couple of weeks. Kyrie Irving of the Boston Celtics has complained about the steep price of celebrity. For his part, George blamed “the press” for being a disruptive force in locker rooms.“Everything gets blown up,” he said. “Everything is a big deal.”It is no small feat, then, that George has found a home with the Thunder — and calm waters in Oklahoma City.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherTwo top N.B.A. teams battling into double overtime. Memorable individual performances. And points, points, points. Thursday night’s game between the San Antonio Spurs and the Oklahoma City Thunder set a handful of records, but it was the Spurs who won, 154-147.LaMarcus Aldridge had his best night. Although he has averaged 20 points or more regularly, and frequently winds up in the 30s and 40s, Aldridge had never scored 50 points in an N.B.A. game until Thursday. And at halftime, it didn’t look as if Thursday would be the night, either; Aldridge had only 14 points. But a strong second half took him to 43, and the two overtimes gave him the extra minutes he needed to reach 56, a new career high.He tallied the 56 with six layups, three dunks, 11 midrange shots and 16 free throws. Notably, the 6-foot-11 Aldridge attempted no 3-pointers, which have powered most of the recent record-setting offensive performances in the modern N.B.A. (That was not surprising; Aldridge is only 2 for 14 on the year from distance.) Still, in padding his scoring in 1s and 2s, Aldridge became the first player to score 50 points without attempting a 3-pointer since Jermaine O’Neal had 55 for the Indiana Pacers in 2005.It was the most points by a Spurs player since David Robinson scored 71 in 1994, and the most against the Thunder franchise since Tom Chambers of the Suns poured in 60 against the team — then still the Seattle SuperSonics — in 1990.It wasn’t just the field goals. Aldridge was 16 of 16 on free throws, ranking second this season for perfection from the line. (James Harden had a 19-of-19 performance against the Detroit Pistons in November.) He also pitched in on defense, blocking four Thunder shots.“Well, he’s been a beast all year long,” Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich told ESPN after the game. “He anchors us on both ends of the floor.”As one might expect, Aldridge took a lot of shots in posting his big number. His 33 attempts were the most for a Spurs player since Tony Parker took 36 shots in a game in 2008.The other Spurs couldn’t miss from 3. While Aldridge stayed mostly down low, his teammates fired away from behind the 3-point line with almost superhuman accuracy, making 16 of 19 attempts. Their percentage, .842, was the highest ever for a team that took at least 10 3-pointers in a game, surpassing a 14-of-17 (.824) performance by the Chicago Bulls in 2005. It was a balanced attack, too, with Marco Belinelli going 5 for 5, Davis Bertans 4 for 4 and Bryn Forbes 3 for 3.The Thunder challenged some records of their own. Russell Westbrook had 24 assists in the loss, the second-highest total of the century, trailing only Rajon Rondo’s 25 for the Pelicans last season. That was part of a triple-double: Westbrook also had 24 points and 13 rebounds. That particular combination of at least 20 points, 10 rebounds and 20 assists is a rarity; it has been done only 12 times in the N.B.A. since 1960, and only one other time this century, in 2016 — by Westbrook.The scoreboard took a pounding. The combined 301 points in the game was the most since 2006, when the Suns and Nets combined to put up 318 in a double-overtime game. The Spurs’ 154 points were the most they had scored in a game since 1990.Both teams will enjoy a day off Friday, then suit up again on Saturday — in a rematch in Oklahoma City. Based on Thursday’s performances, that suddenly has become one of the most anticipated regular-season games in years.An earlier version of this article gave incorrect historical context for one superlative for LaMarcus Aldridge. He scored the most points by a Spur since David Robinson in 1994, not since George Gervin in 1978.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — CJ McCollum likes when games get gritty.The guard scored 33 points as the Portland Trail Blazers took a 2-0 lead in their playoff series against the Oklahoma City Thunder with a 114-94 victory on Tuesday night.Tense at times with plenty of jawing back-and-forth between the teams, the series now heads to Oklahoma City for Game 3 on Friday."I love it, that's what I live for," said McCollum, who missed 10 games late in the regular season because of a knee injury. "Just like playing on the playground."Damian Lillard added 29 points for the third-seeded Blazers, who opened a playoff series with two wins for the first time since the 2014 playoffs, when they beat Houston in six games.Russell Westbrook, who had his ninth career postseason triple-double in Oklahoma City's Game 1 loss, finished with 14 points, nine rebounds and 11 assists. He was pulled with 3:31 with most of his fellow starters after Portland built a 112-91 lead.Westbrook was just 5 of 20 from the field, including 1 for 6 on 3-point attempts. Collectively, the Thunder were 5 of 28 from the perimeter."I've got to play better," Westbrook said. "Tonight, the loss, I'm going to take full responsibility of tonight because the way I played was unacceptable. I'm going to be better."Paul George had 27 points despite lingering questions about his right shoulder, which was covered with kinesiology tape.Portland's victory in Game 1 snapped a 10-game postseason losing streak that included four-game sweeps in the past two seasons — first by the Warriors and then last year by the Pelicans. Lillard had 30 points in the 104-99 win on Sunday.Oklahoma City beat the Blazers in all four meetings during the regular season. The Thunder have been to the playoffs for eight of the last nine seasons, but they haven't gotten past the opening round for the past two.Oklahoma City started with a lot more energy than in Game 1, when it fell behind by 19 points in the first half. When Westbrook hit a 3-pointer in the first quarter, he pounded his chest and the Thunder went on to lead 31-26 at the end of the period.Lillard hit a 3-pointer and was fouled to close the Blazers within 48-43. But the game began to get heated, with Lillard and Westbrook getting into it when Lillard tried to strip the ball. The officials reviewed it for a "hostile act" but concluded there were no fouls on the play. It was chippy for much of the game, and at one point Lillard and Steven Adams stared each other down after Adams set a screen on the All-Star guard."With this team it's physical. It's physical every time we've played them," said Portland's Maurice Harkless, who finished with 14 points. "It's only magnified now — and it's only going to get more physical."Westbrook collected three fouls in the first half and headed early to the bench, as did Portland's Enes Kanter, who was so successful against the Thunder in Game 1. Together the teams had 29 fouls in the opening half and there were 54 for the game.McCollum nailed a 3-pointer off a pass from Lillard at the buzzer to tie the game at 54 going into the break. Then McCollum turned to the crowd and simply nodded."My body feels good," said McCollum, playing in his fourth game since the layoff because of a left knee strain. "Coming off an injury, being able to get into a rhythm and get up and down. Being able to find that rhythm is very important to me."Portland pulled in front on McCollum's jumper and extended it to 69-63 with Lillard's long 3-pointer. Seth Curry had back-to-back 3s to put the Blazers up 85-73 late in the third.The Blazers' hopes for postseason success appeared to take a blow last month when center Jusuf Nurkic was lost for the season with a broken left leg. Nurkic was averaging 15.6 points and 10.4 rebounds when he sustained the gruesome injury during a game against the Brooklyn Nets.Kanter, signed just before the All-Star break after he was waived by the New York Knicks, has started in Nurkic's place. Kanter had 20 points and 18 rebounds in Game 1 but finished with six points and five rebounds on Tuesday.At one point in the first half Kanter got knocked in the hand and X-rays at halftime revealed a contusion. But he said following the game that he'd be fine for Game 3.TIP-INSThunder: Thunder coach Billy Donovan was emphatic before the game: "No injuries, no one out, no game-time decisions." ... It's the first playoff series between the teams since the Thunder moved from Seattle to Oklahoma City.Trail Blazers: Seattle Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson, who just signed a contract extension that makes him the highest paid player in the NFL, was among the fans at the Moda Center, as was Gonzaga coach Mark Few. ... Jake Layman, who did not play in the series opener, came in to start the second quarter.TROUBLE FROM DISTANCEDonovan said he'll take a look at why the Thunder aren't faring well from 3-point range. The team also struggled in Game 1, making just five of 33 attempts."For the most part, I think we got fairly decent looks and we're going to have to take them," Donovan said. "As the ball gets driven downhill, and teams bring help and protect the rim, you just can't force the ball in there and take tough, ill-advised shots. And when the ball gets sprayed back out to the perimeter and guys are open, it's hard to say, 'OK, just drive it right back to the help again and hope they move out of the way.'"UP NEXT: Game 3 is set for Friday night in Oklahoma City.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — After eight straight playoff losses over the past two years, the Portland Trail Blazers finally got a win.Damian Lillard scored 30 points and the third-seeded Blazers opened their series against the No. 6 Oklahoma City Thunder on Sunday with a 104-99 victory."We know how it feels to win again," Lillard said. "Now we can just kind of move on from that and stay focused on this series."Portland was swept by New Orleans last season and the Warriors the year before.Enes Kanter added 20 points and a career playoff-high 18 rebounds for the Blazers, who were making their sixth straight postseason appearance. CJ McCollum added 24 points.Russell Westbrook had 24 points, 10 assists and 10 rebounds for his ninth career postseason triple-double. Paul George, who was a game-time decision because of a sore shoulder, added 26 points and 10 rebounds despite a rough shooting night.Westbrook appeared to hurt his right ankle in the final quarter and grimaced while trying to walk it off. Trainers attended to him on the bench at the next timeout but he returned and his layup closed the gap to 91-87 with just under 4 minutes left.Asked about it afterward, Westbrook said: "We'll see."After trailing by as many as 19 points in the first half, Oklahoma City pulled within as 93-92 on George's 3-pointer with 2:44 left. Lillard answered with a long 3-pointer to keep the Blazers ahead and Al-Farouq Aminu made free throws to extend Portland's lead to 98-92.George made a 3-pointer with 8.2 seconds remaining to get the Thunder within 100-97 but Portland hung on."We knew it was going to be a fight all night long. Even at the beginning of the game when we were up like 17 at one point, I wasn't looking at the scoreboard like, 'Let's put them away." I was like, 'Let's just stay solid, keep competing, keep playing hard,' Lillard said. "And then when they make their runs, and when they get back in the game, (you) just weather those storms."It was the first postseason meeting between the teams since the Thunder moved from Seattle to Oklahoma City.Oklahoma City beat the Blazers in all four meetings this season, including a heated 129-121 overtime victory on March 7.The Thunder have been to the playoffs for eight of the last nine seasons, but they haven't gotten past the opening round for the past two.George was nursing a sore right shoulder and was considered day-to-day for Sunday's game but he started. However he was just 1 of 6 from the floor in the opening quarter. For the game, he made four of 15 3-point attempts."Four days ago I couldn't even lift my shoulder," he said. "Then fast forward to today this is the first day I've even shot the ball, so for me it's just rhythm."George missed the Thunder' regular-season finale Wednesday at Milwaukee because of the nagging injury, which also kept him out of games on Feb. 28, March 2 and March 3.McCollum missed 10 games down the stretch with a left knee strain and had only played in two games since returning. But he started and hit his first two 3-point attempts.The Blazers' hopes for postseason success were dealt a blow last month when center Jusuf Nurkic was lost for the season with a broken left leg. Nurkic was averaging 15.6 points and 10.4 rebounds when he sustained the gruesome injury during a game against the Brooklyn Nets.Kanter, signed just before the All-Star break after he was waived by the New York Knicks, has started in Nurkic's place.The Thunder rallied from a 19-point deficit in the first half to trail by just 54-48 at the break. But they struggled from 3-point range, making just two of 18 attempts.There was simmering tension between the teams. Terrance Ferguson and McCollum had a heated exchange in the second quarter, earning technical fouls. Ferguson earned his third foul and headed to the bench.Westbrook's layup got the Thunder within 64-60, but he collected his fourth foul late in the third and went to the bench. The Blazers went into the fourth quarter with a 76-69 lead.The Thunder's only lead was in the opening quarter."It's a series. First to four. They won the first game," Westbrook said. "Now we make adjustments, come back, play harder next game and try to take it."TIP-INS:Thunder: While the Thunder swept the Blazers 4-0 during the regular season, Portland swept them in four games the season before.Trail Blazers: Blazers coach Terry Stotts concluded his pregame talk with the media by saying. "All right. Masters." The Blazers were 8-8 in the postseason against the SuperSonics. ... Portland had won the last eight regular-season games at the Moda Center. ... Kanter had his third playoff double-double. ... The Blazers haven't made it out of the first round for the past two seasons. Last year as a No. 3 seed Portland got swept by the New Orleans Pelicans.KANTER'S DAYIn just his ninth start with the Blazers, Kanter became just the third player in team history with at least 20 points and 18 rebounds in playoff game. Bill Walton did it three times and LaMarcus Aldridge once."He gave us a lot of toughness inside," Stotts said. "Obviously, his rebounding and scoring. I thought his conditioning was really good. He maintained a high level of play for a long period of time."UP NEXT: Game 2 is Tuesday night at the Moda Center.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Stephen Curry was about 25 minutes into a news conference here on Saturday afternoon when a magician who goes by the name Jibrizy sidled up to the dais to do a card trick. Curry, the Golden State Warriors point guard, seemed impressed.“That was nice, big fella,” Curry said. “That was crazy. Y’all see that? Did y’all see that? What’s your name, boss? Jibrizy? Nice to meet you, man. Fire. You’re fire. That’s what’s up.”Lots of weird stuff tends to happen during N.B.A. All-Star weekend, and a cameo by Jibrizy was no exception. But it was also the rare instance when the spotlight left Curry, if only for a moment, in the run-up to the weekend’s flagship game on Sunday.Curry, a six-time All-Star and two-time most valuable player who has already coaxed Golden State to three championships, is used to lots of attention. But he relished his return to Charlotte, where he grew up to become perhaps the greatest shooter of all time — and where he is still revered.“From the time I started playing basketball at 5, right down the street at the recreation center, to now, a lot has happened,” Curry said. “A lot of great things.”Curry was not so great Sunday, but that was not the point. He finished with 17 points, 9 rebounds and 7 assists for Team Giannis in a 178-164 loss to Team LeBron in the All-Star Game, which was a defense-free postscript to a weekend that was a Curry family affair.“Incredibly fond of the family,” Commissioner Adam Silver told reporters. “They seem to be the first family of Charlotte, at least this week.”For much of his trip home, Curry was accompanied by his father, Dell, who spent 10 seasons playing for the Charlotte Hornets, and his mother, Sonya, who drilled a half-court heave after the family helped refurbish a community center. It was probably the family’s splashiest shot of the weekend.“I was surprised,” Stephen Curry said, “because the first four she flung underhand, they didn’t make it to the rim. And then that last one, it just looked good from the moment it left her hand, and I was going, ‘Wham, bam, can of ham! That’s going in!’ ”Curry had less success in Saturday night’s 3-point shootout, where he was joined by his younger brother, Seth, who plays for the Portland Trail Blazers. Stephen Curry made it to the championship round before losing to Joe Harris of the Brooklyn Nets.But Curry had also found time to return to Davidson College, his alma mater, where he clambered into the student section to celebrate an 80-72 victory over St. Joseph’s on Friday night.“The energy in the building was unbelievable,” Curry said. “It’s surreal every time I get to go back there.”The following afternoon, Curry swayed in a sea of reporters (and at least one magician) as he fielded a wide-ranging mix of questions.What did it mean to him to be back in Charlotte? “It’s kind of overwhelming to be honest,” he said. “I’ve got to be like the Energizer bunny.”Could he say something nice to all his fans in the Dominican Republic? “I’ve been there, and I hope to go back,” he said.Did he have a favorite basketball-themed movie? “Probably ‘Love & Basketball,’ ” he said. “I’m a romantic, bro.”During warm-ups for Sunday’s game, Curry mimicked a game of volleyball with Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, posted up a ball boy so that he could take an entry pass from Oklahoma City Thunder point guard Russell Westbrook, made chitchat with bigwigs who were courtside and jacked his share of 30-footers. Most of them went in. All-Star weekend is a circus, but it is still basketball, after all, and Curry has unique skills.He is assembling another spectacular season, even if his work has been overshadowed by fellow All-Stars like James Harden of the Houston Rockets, Paul George of the Thunder and Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo. Curry has been so consistently good for so long now — and his team so dominant — that perhaps some of the novelty has worn off. It is unfair, of course.If his feats feel too familiar, consider his production this season: 28.6 points, 5.2 assists and 5.1 rebounds per game while shooting 48.8 percent from the field and 44.4 percent from 3-point range. He missed 11 games with a groin injury but spent part of that time gluing the Warriors’ locker room back together after Kevin Durant and Draymond Green had a big dust-up.The friction stemmed from Durant’s looming free agency, which has been a steady hum of distraction for the Warriors. But Curry has been a stabilizing force for his team — and even for the league.With a contract that runs through the 2021-22 season, Curry has not had to face pressing questions about his future. He is committed to the Warriors, and the Warriors appear committed to him. He is a throwback in an era dominated by player movement, the current face of which is Anthony Davis, the All-Star center who recently requested a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans. So many other stars face uncertain summers, too: Durant, Kyrie Irving and Kawhi Leonard among them.But Curry has his niche in Northern California, even if his roots are in North Carolina. After Sunday’s game, he described trying to persuade his father to move to the Bay Area, where Curry has settled in with his wife, Ayesha, and their three children.Dell Curry, who is a color commentator for the Hornets, always says no.“This is where home is for him,” Stephen Curry said.And for Stephen Curry, the whereabouts of his father seem to be the only player movements on his mind. Curry said he was unconcerned with free agency this summer and the potential departures of his teammates.“That’s a part of the business,” Curry said. “But the great teams, the great players, they stay in the moment and they understand what’s in front of them.”And so, after taking a weekend to dip into his past, Curry returned to looking ahead. The journey goes on.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAs the crowd filed out of the Barclays Center in May 2015, there was reason for hope. Though the Nets had just been eliminated by the Atlanta Hawks in the first round of the playoffs, they had overachieved and shown some promise for the future. And Phil Jackson had become the Knicks president the year before, bringing his triangle offense and a coaching résumé that included 11 N.B.A. titles to Manhattan.Little did New York fans know that it would be four dreadful years before playoff basketball would return to the city. It finally will on Thursday night, when the Nets host the Philadelphia 76ers in a series tied at one all.While there has been no playoff basketball in the city in the interim, much has happened in those four years. And for Knicks and Nets fans, not much of it has been good.May 1, 2015 The eighth-seeded Nets fall to the top-seeded Hawks, 111-87. But they take two games in the series, raising optimism. “We were able to secure a playoff spot,” Coach Lionel Hollins says. “Some people will say, ‘Hey, we didn’t deserve it.’ That’s their problem.”June 25 After putting up a 17-65 record, the worst in franchise history and the league’s second worst in 2015, the Knicks have bad luck in the draft lottery, ending up at the No. 4 spot. Nevertheless, their selection, Kristaps Porzingis of Latvia, will pay off, quickly becoming a star and a fan favorite.Oct. 3 Knicks Coach Derek Fisher gets into a physical altercation after being confronted by Matt Barnes of the Memphis Grizzlies at the home of Barnes’s estranged wife. Barnes is suspended for two games.Dec. 30 Cleanthony Early of the Knicks is shot in the knee by masked men and robbed of gold teeth caps after a visit to a strip club.Jan. 10, 2016 The Nets fire Coach Hollins and demote General Manager Billy King with the team at 10-27. “Frankly speaking, I deserve a championship now much more than six years ago,”  owner Mikhail D. Prokhorov says.Feb. 8 The Knicks, 23-31, fire Fisher. “There’s not a whole lot to say,” Jackson says in his first remarks to reporters since the start of training camp.April 13 The Nets finish the season 21-61, the league’s third worst record. But there will be little help on draft day: They traded their top pick to the Celtics in 2014 for a 37-year-old Kevin Garnett and a 36-year-old Paul Pierce, both of whom are gone at this point.The Knicks finish 32-50. That’s a 15-game improvement, but Jackson says, “We’re disappointed about our season.”April 17 The Nets hire Kenny Atkinson, a Hawks assistant, as head coach. “Together, we can do great things,” Prokhorov says.June 2 The Knicks hire Jeff Hornacek as coach, bypassing the interim coach, Kurt Rambis.June 22 The Knicks trade for Derrick Rose, who proclaims them a “superteam.” After a year he will leave for the Cleveland Cavaliers.July 7 The Nets sign Jeremy Lin, perhaps hoping to recapture the Linsanity that took over the Knicks in 2012.July 8 The Knicks sign Joakim Noah for four years and $72 million. This will not work out. Noah will be suspended for 20 games for a drug violation, be sent to the developmental league and get into a shouting match with Hornacek. The Knicks wind up releasing him in 2018 and paying him anyway.Feb. 8, 2017 The Knicks legend Charles Oakley is ejected from Madison Square Garden during a game. The crowd sides with the former player, chanting “Oakley, Oakley.” The Knicks say he behaved abusively, and the owner, James L. Dolan, says that Oakley “may have a problem with alcohol.” Oakley sues, claiming defamation and battery.March 12 Carmelo Anthony gets his 10,000th point as a Knick, becoming the third player to reach that mark with two teams.April 12 The Nets finish 20-62, the worst record in the league. Once again a potentially high draft pick is gone, as part of the Garnett deal. The Knicks are 31-51.June 22 The Nets trade their longtime star Brook Lopez to the Los Angeles Lakers for D’Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov. Russell will become a key player in the team’s resurgence.June 28 The Knicks and Phil Jackson agree to part ways after three years. The Knicks never fully embraced his triangle offense, and Jackson remained wary of the 3-point shot as it became increasingly important in the league. He also could never seem to get rid of Anthony, the team’s aging star who refused to waive a no-trade clause. Jackson also feuded with the player expected to be the team’s future, Porzingis.Sept. 25 A trade is finally worked out for Anthony, who is sent to the Oklahoma City Thunder for Enes Kanter. He gave the Knicks seven seasons of 20-points-a-game play. Jackson was willing “to trade me for a bag of chips,” Anthony says. He also notes that under new management, “They went from asking for peanuts to asking for steak.”Oct. 18 Lin ruptures a knee tendon  in the Nets’ opening game and misses the entire season.Feb. 6, 2018 Porzingis tears the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee and is out for the rest of this season and the next one.April 11 The Nets finish 28-54. Incredibly, for a third straight year they do not have their top pick because of that Garnett deal. (Garnett is by now 41 and has been out of the league two years.) The lost picks turned into Jaylen Brown, a big part of the contending Celtics; Markelle Fultz, a No. 1 overall choice; and Collin Sexton, who averaged 17 points as a rookie with the Cleveland Cavaliers.The Knicks wind up 29-53 and fire Hornacek the next day. David Fizdale will be the new coach.Asked how the Knicks can improve, the superfan Spike Lee can only turn to prayer: “On bended knee I pray above to da basketball gods to deliver us back to da glory years of da Orange and Blue. Amen,” he writes in The New York Times.June 20 The Nets make a trade to get Dwight Howard from the Hornets, but Howard buys his way out of his contract and never plays for them.July 13 The Nets trade Lin to the Hawks, curing the city’s second, significantly milder case of Linsanity.Jan. 31, 2019 The Knicks  send their most popular player, Porzingis, who is still recovering from the torn A.C.L., to the Dallas Mavericks in a blockbuster trade. Two months later it will be revealed that he is under investigation by the New York Police Department after being accused of sexual assault.The Knicks get Dennis Smith Jr. and some expiring contracts, which should open up salary cap space so they can sign some marquee free agents. Assuming that marquee free agents would want to play for the Knicks.March 12 Knicks fans hoping for a change in ownership are disappointed when Dolan proclaims that he will not sell the team, even for $6 billion. Two days before that, he was filmed threatening a fan with banishment from the Garden after the fan had urged him to sell the team.April 10 The Knicks have sunk to the bottom of the league again, finishing 17-65 and tying the franchise-worst mark. The Nets start the season 8-18, but then unexpectedly turn things around behind Russell, Spencer Dinwiddie (picked up from the developmental league in 2016) and Jarrett Allen (a No. 22 pick in 2017). They finish 42-40. Playoff basketball returns to New York. For now.An earlier version of this article misstated the Knicks’ record in the 2014-15 season. They were 17-65, not 17-63.Benjamin Hoffman contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alex WongNathaniel Butler has been an N.B.A. senior photographer since 1984. Those were the days of shooting on film and developing photos in hotel rooms after games. Today, players text Butler as they arrive at the arena so he can be in position to capture a perfect arena entrance shot for them to post on Instagram.The job isn’t what it used to be.When Andrew D. Bernstein became an official N.B.A. photographer in 1986, he was continually thwarted in his attempts to get his camera into in-game huddles to capture the interactions between players and coaches. Pat Riley, who was the coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, made sure to obscure all viewpoints.Halfway through the season, Riley asked Bernstein why he wanted to be in the huddle. People want to see what’s happening on the inside, Bernstein told Riley, who agreed to give Bernstein a chance. If you screw up, Riley said, you are never coming back.More than three decades later, Bernstein is still photographing N.B.A. players, huddles and pretty much whatever he pleases as the league’s longest tenured senior photographer.Photographers have long played a critical role in shaping narratives in a league defined by faces and moments. The most iconic posters are the finished works of the photographers who position themselves along the baseline each game, often contorting their bodies and forgetting about personal comfort to get closer and take countless snaps, in hopes of capturing a masterpiece.In today’s N.B.A., they allow players to use those photographs as building blocks for their social media profiles. They have adapted to an ever-changing digital world that has presented new opportunities and a whole new set of challenges.On game day, Butler uses a combination of tethered remotes and custom phone apps to operate any number of cameras in an arena.He sends photographs to a team of editors in Secaucus, N.J., with the press of a button. In seconds, they can be published on the league’s official social media feeds and reach millions of people around the world.Despite the technological advances, shooting an N.B.A. game can be more difficult than one would think. “A basketball game is a complex situation,” said Bruce Ely, the lead photographer of the Portland Trail Blazers. “There are a lot of moving parts.”Like a fan’s arms waving across the frame just as Damian Lillard makes a 3-pointer. Or the leg of another player sneaking into the edge of the image, ruining a portrait. Another time, it might be a referee walking into a perfect shot.Despite the challenges, some N.B.A. photographers do not consider it their most difficult assignment. Nelson Campana, who photographs the Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team, regularly shoots weddings as well. The pressure of game night is nothing compared with the responsibility of chronicling a couple’s special day.“You have one night to make it right,” Campana said. “There’s a list of things you need to get, and you don’t get another chance. At a basketball game, you’re just hoping things happen.”Some nights, there is too much happening at the same time. As the Oklahoma City Thunder eliminated the San Antonio Spurs in the 2016 playoffs, Butler had to make a split-second decision about what to photograph at the buzzer. He focused on Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook embracing, and then got a shot of Durant with Tim Duncan. He stayed with Durant afterward, but that meant missing a chance to capture Duncan walking off an N.B.A. court for the final time.“Ideally,” Butler said, “I would like to be in two places at one time.”While some players enjoy being on the other side of these photographers’ lenses, others say it is an adjustment. Aaron Gordon of the Orlando Magic first remembers being in front of a camera as a high schooler being interviewed after winning a basketball tournament.“You have to live in a way where you’re O.K. with being seen,” Gordon said. “You’re always being watched these days.”Because so many photos are being taken, players have to accept that they can control only so much of what is shared online.“You want to nitpick every single picture,” said John Collins, a second-year forward with the Atlanta Hawks. “But it just can’t work that way. You can’t read everything about yourself and see every photo of yourself.”To take more control over their visual narratives on social media, players are working with photographers to shoot them outside basketball arenas.Cassy Athena is a professional photographer who has earned the trust of players around the league. Last season, at All-Star Weekend in Los Angeles, Athena followed Stephen Curry and his wife, Ayesha, for the entire weekend. She was also invited by Indiana Pacers guard Victor Oladipo to shoot him at New York Fashion Week in 2018.Athena says it takes time to convince certain players of the value of her photographs.“It’s not so much they don’t understand the importance of the moment,” she said. “It’s convincing them why they should share it with the world. When it clicks, you get guys who might not be the best N.B.A. player, but they use this” — meaning Instagram and professional photos — “to build their own brand and further their careers.”Older, more established players worry less about their online persona but more about how the images carry a nostalgic value as their careers wind down.“What photographers do may seem minute,” said Vince Carter, 42, who just ended his 21st season in the league. “But I’ve seen so many shots of the best moments of my career, and in some ways, they’ve helped me remember those moments.”Many of these iconic images can now be seen on the Instagram pages of the photographers themselves. Bernstein said he was the last guy dragged kicking and screaming into the social media era. He now enjoys posting classic pictures for Throwback Thursday.Butler adds watermarks to the photographs he posts on his feed because other accounts and publications will often publish them without giving him credit. But he recognizes the value of being online. “It opens you up to a whole other audience,” Butler said.The rise of social media accounts means there are now more photographers at N.B.A. games. Butler prefers to use a camera lens that does not require him to be right in the face of players to capture them up close. In the modern era, he has noticed a lot of camera phones being shoved into players’ faces.“There’s an etiquette that doesn’t exist anymore,” Butler said. “Not just in sports, but in society.”Even though photographers want to capture every moment, some also realize that there are boundaries. A few months ago, Kyrie Irving and Durant had a private conversation at All-Star Weekend in Charlotte, N.C., which was captured on film. It was circulated online, and many believed the two were discussing their heavily rumored plans to join the Knicks together this summer.“If I was a player, that would bother me,” Butler said. “You don’t have to document every second of their existence.”Bernstein had a similar decision to make more than 30 years ago, during the 1988 N.B.A. finals, when he walked through the Lakers’ locker room after a loss and found Magic Johnson and Michael Cooper with their uniforms on, dejected as the showers were running around them.It was a one-of-a-kind moment, but Bernstein opted against taking the photograph.“That was their time,” Bernstein said. “That didn’t need to be documented. I have that picture in my mind, and that’s enough.”An earlier version of this article described Nelson Campana’s job incorrectly. He photographs the Toronto Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team; he is not the team photographer.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Luke Kennard scored 27 points, Reggie Jackson had 21 and Andre Drummond added 20 points and 18 rebounds as the Detroit Pistons locked up the Eastern Conference's final playoff spot with a 115-89 victory over the New York Knicks on Wednesday night.The Pistons will face the top-seeded Milwaukee Bucks in the opening round.Jackson scored 14 points and Drummond had 10 points and seven rebounds in the first quarter as the Pistons never trailed and led by as many as 16 points. Neither Jackson nor Drummond played in the fourth quarter.Wayne Ellington added 12 points for the Pistons, who hadn't made the playoffs since the 2015-16 season, the last time they finished over .500 (44-38). Before, Detroit hadn't made the postseason since 2008-09.John Jenkins led the Knicks with 16 points, and Kadeem Allen added 13. Henry Ellenson scored 12 points, and Mitchell Robinson and Isaiah Hicks each had 11.NUGGETS 99, TIMBERWOLVES 95DENVER (AP) — Nikola Jokic had 29 points, 14 rebounds and had a key strip in the closing seconds as Denver scored the game's final 15 points and secured the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs.James Murray added 17 for the Nuggets, who are in the postseason for the first time in six years and will face seventh-seeded San Antonio.Gorgui Dieng added 18 points for the Timberwolves backups and rookie Cameron Reynolds scored a career-best 17 points, including a 3-pointer that put Minnesota ahead 95-84 with 4:01 left.TRAIL BLAZERS 136, KINGS 131PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) — Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a career-high 37 points in his first start of the season and Portland secured the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference using just six players in a win over Sacramento.The Blazers have won 14 of 17 games en route to their sixth straight trip to the playoffs. Portland will open the postseason against the Oklahoma City Thunder, who finished in sixth.Marvin Bagley III had 20 points to lead the Kings, who lost their 11th straight game in Portland.CLIPPERS 143, JAZZ 137, OTLOS ANGELES (AP) — Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead seven players in double figures and the Clippers beat Utah in overtime, snapping a three-game skid to close the regular season.Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Patrick Beverley had 14 points in his return from injury.The Clippers' losing streak had already dropped them from the sixth seed to No. 8 in the playoffs, where they'll open against the defending champion Golden State Warriors.Grayson Allen led Utah with a career-high 40 points. The rookie made 13 of 14 free throws and five 3-pointers, but was limited to four points in overtime.The Jazz earned the fifth seed and they'll play No. 4 Houston in the first round.THUNDER 127, BUCKS 116MILWAUKEE (AP) — Russell Westbrook got his 34th triple-double of the season and Oklahoma City beat Milwaukee to lock up the sixth seed in the Western Conference playoffs.Oklahoma City played without injured Paul George, but Westbrook, Jerami Grant and Dennis Schroder led a hot-shooting effort from 3-point range. Westbrook had 15 points, 17 assists and 11 rebounds. He moved into a tie with Magic Johnson for second place on the career triple-double list with 138. Schroder had 32 points, and Grant added a career-best 28.The Bucks had already clinched the No. 1 seed in the Eastern Conference and rested star Giannis Antetokounmpo and some other key players.Khris Middleton scored 21 points in 17 minutes. Tim Frazier scored a career-high 29 points and D.J. Wilson added a career-high 18 while grabbing 17 rebounds. Rookie Bonzie Colson started and scored 21 points.MAGIC 122, HORNETS 114CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) — Kemba Walker scored 43 points in what may be his final game with Charlotte, a loss to Orlando that eliminated the Hornets from playoff contention.Terrence Ross scored a season-high 35 points, Aaron Gordon added 27 and the Magic clinched the seventh seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs and will face the Toronto Raptors in the first round.Aside from Walker's sharp shooting, nothing went right for Charlotte on the final night of the regular season. The loss also means Tony Parker's string of 17 straight playoff appearances is over.NETS 113, HEAT 94NEW YORK (AP) — Dwyane Wade recorded one last triple-double before heading off to retirement, and Brooklyn headed to Philadelphia to take on the 76ers in the first round of the Eastern Conference playoffs after securing the win and the No. 6 seed.Wade had 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in his final NBA game with close friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony leading the cheers from their courtside seats.D'Angelo Russell had 21 points on seven 3-pointers for the Nets, who will face the third-seeded 76ers beginning this weekend in their first postseason appearance since 2015.SPURS 105, MAVERICKS 94SAN ANTONIO (AP) — LaMarcus Aldridge had 34 points and 16 rebounds and San Antonio beat Dallas in Dirk Nowitzki's final game.Nowitzki finished with 20 points and 10 rebounds in the finale of his storied 21-season career — all with the Mavericks.The Spurs head into the Western Conference playoffs as the No. 7 seed.DeMar Derozan finished with 19 points and Derrick White added 14 for the Spurs, who finished with a 49-34 record.GRIZZLIES 132, WARRIORS 117MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) — Jevon Carter scored a career-high 32 points, Justin Holiday added 22 and Memphis beat Golden State in the teams' regular-season finale.Kevin Durant led the Warriors with 21 points, while Klay Thompson finished with 19. Durant and Thompson, who sat out Tuesday's win at New Orleans, were the only Golden State starters to play. Both saw action only in the first half.Golden State entered the game with its playoff position set atop of the Western Conference and sat most of its stars.Carter, a rookie from West Virginia who was averaging 3.7 points, was 10 of 18 from the field and 8 of 12 from 3-point range. Memphis was helped by 21-of-46 shooting from 3-point range.Bruno Caboclo scored 21 points, and Delon Wright recorded his third triple-double in the last four games with 13 points, 11 rebounds and 11 assists.76ERS 125, BULLS 109PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points to lead Philadelphia over Chicago in the regular-season finale for both teams.In preparation for the playoffs, the 76ers rested all five starters, and star center Joel Embiid's status for the opener is in question. The third-seeded Sixers said the 7-foot center's achy left knee may prevent him from playing in the postseason opener this weekend against sixth-seeded Brooklyn.Walt Lemon Jr. scored 20 points to lead the Bulls, who were without Denzel Valentine, Wendell Carter Jr., Chandler Hutchison, Zach LaVine, Lauri Markkanen, Otto Porter Jr. and Kris Dunn.PACERS 135, HAWKS 134ATLANTA (AP) — Edmond Sumner sank three free throws with three-tenths of a second remaining, lifting playoff-bound Indiana past Atlanta.Taurean Prince's 3-pointer with 1.1 seconds remaining gave Atlanta the lead, but DeAndre Bembry's foul on Sumner's last-second 3-point attempt changed the game.TJ Leaf set career highs with 28 points and 10 rebounds for Indiana.Tyreke Evans scored 27 points and Sumner had 22 as the Pacers won despite resting most of their top scorers.Prince and Trae Young each scored 23 points for Atlanta. John Collins scored 20 points and set a career high with 25 rebounds.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points. At age 39, he became the oldest player ever to reach 50 in an NBA game.Heat 122, 76ers 99Dwyane Wade, playing the final home game of his NBA career, scored 30 points to lead Miami over Philadelphia.Wade made 10 of 23 shots, including 4 of 10 on attempts from beyond the arc. It was his second-highest scoring game of the season. But it was a bittersweet night for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention earlier in the evening when the Detroit Pistons rallied from a 22-point deficit to defeat the Memphis Grizzlies.Philadelphia, which has already clinched the third seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs, rested two of its stars: Joel Embiid, who was listed as having a knee injury, and JJ Redick (back).Warriors 112, Pelicans 103DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds against his former team as visiting Golden State defeated New Orleans.After clinching home-court advantage throughout the Western Conference playoffs on Sunday, the Warriors had Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson, Andre Iguodala and Andrew Bogut among their inactive players. Stephen Curry left for game after scoring five points in nine minutes in what the Warriors called "a precaution" after he sustained a mild foot sprain.Jahlil Okafor scored 30 points to lead the short-handed Pelicans, who dressed just eight players and finished the season 33-49.Raptors 120, Timberwolves 100Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points as visiting Toronto completed its regular-season schedule with a victory over Minnesota.The Raptors (58-24) secured the second-best record in the Eastern Conference with the win, behind only the Milwaukee Bucks (60-21), who play their final game Wednesday.Fred VanVleet added 16 points for the Raptors, Chris Boucher added career bests with 15 points and 13 rebounds, and Pascal Siakam and Norman Powell each scored 10 points. Gorgui Dieng and Andrew Wiggins each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves.Jazz 118, Nuggets 108Donovan Mitchell matched his career best of 46 points, and Utah posted a victory over Denver in Salt Lake City.Rudy Gobert added 20 points and 10 rebounds as Utah notched its ninth straight home win against Denver. Utah locked up the No. 5 seed for the Western Conference playoffs.Malik Beasley scored 25 points on 9-of-13 shooting for the Nuggets, who have lost four of their past six games and are a half-game ahead of Houston after the Rockets fell to the Oklahoma City Thunder on Tuesday.Trail Blazers 104, Lakers 101Instead of quietly sneaking into the offseason after losing its season finale to playoff-bound Portland, Los Angeles made some noise when Magic Johnson announced his resignation as president of basketball operations for the team.The game still meant something for Portland, though, and the Trail Blazers clinched home-court advantage in the first round of the Western Conference playoffs when Maurice Harkless made a 3-pointer at the buzzer for a win. The Trail Blazers can overtake the Rockets on a tiebreaker to finish third in the West with a win against the visiting Sacramento Kings on Wednesday.Harkless, who left the previous game with left hip tightness, finished with 26 points. Kentavious Caldwell-Pope had 32 points and eight assists for the Lakers, who finished with 37 wins -- two more than last season.Thunder 112, Rockets 111Russell Westbrook scored 29 points, but it was Paul George's corner 3-pointer with 1.8 seconds left that sent Oklahoma City to a home win over Houston.Oklahoma City trailed by 14 early in the fourth quarter and by four in the final minute before Westbrook's and George's heroics.James Harden made his first 12 free throws in the game but with less than 10 seconds left and Houston on top 111-109, he missed one, giving the Thunder a chance to tie or take the lead. Westbrook barreled up the court, briefly handing the ball off to Steven Adams near midcourt before getting the ball and firing it to George in the corner for what proved to be the game-winner.Celtics 116, Wizards 100Terry Rozier led seven Boston players in double figures with 21 points as his team closed out the regular season with a win over host Washington.The Celtics rallied from a 13-point, third-quarter deficit for their sixth win in eight games. Boston, which played without Marcus Smart, Jayson Tatum, Kyrie Irving, Al Horford, Marcus Morris, Aron Baynes and Gordon Hayward, will be the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs.Semi Ojeleye, Brad Wanamaker and RJ Hunter had 17 points apiece for Boston, which outscored Washington 27-15 in the fourth quarter. Tomas Satoransky led the Wizards with 19 points, and Bradley Beal scored 16 points in 16 minutes. Beal became the first person in franchise history to finish a season averaging at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists per game.Pistons 100, Grizzlies 93Andre Drummond scored 20 points and grabbed 17 rebounds, and Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to defeat visiting Memphis.Despite winning, the Pistons were unable to clinch the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. The Charlotte Hornets beat the Cleveland Cavaliers and remain one game behind Detroit heading into Wednesday night's final regular-season games. The Pistons finish against the Knicks at New York while the Hornets host the Orlando Magic.The Pistons, who trailed by 22 in the second quarter, climbed all the way back and took an 85-83 lead on Ish Smith's jumper just moments after his 3-pointer tied the score at 83-all. Smith finished with 22 points off the bench, and Luke Kennard added 15 for Detroit.Hornets 124, Cavaliers 97Kemba Walker and Jeremy Lamb scored 23 points apiece, and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive with a victory over host Cleveland.The Hornets led by 12 points in the first half and then pushed the lead all the way to 27 in the fourth quarter, winning their fourth straight and eighth in their past 11 games. They hit a season-high 22 3-pointers on 44 attempts and shot 57.7 percent from the field.Miles Bridges and Dwayne Bacon added 18 points apiece for the Hornets. Frank Kaminsky scored 14 and Devonte Graham had 10. Collin Sexton led the Cavs with 18 points.Knicks 96, Bulls 86Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points and Kevin Knox and Luke Kornet each notched double-doubles to lead New York past host Chicago.Knox had 17 points and 10 rebounds, Kornet chipped in 12 points and 13 rebounds and Damyean Dotson added 12 points for the Knicks (17-64), who are already assured of the NBA's worst record this season. They can do no worse than tie the franchise record for fewest wins in a regular season, set in 2014-15.The Bulls closed the home portion of their schedule with a 9-32 record, setting a franchise record for home futility. The 2000-01 team held the previous club standard for fewest home victories with 10.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Tracy and Kevin DraperWhen the left sneaker of college basketball’s biggest star split open on national television Wednesday night 30 seconds into the biggest game of the season, what spilled out was not only his foot but also questions about the future of a marquee player and about the huge influence shoe companies hold over big-time college basketball.The episode occurred in a game between the archrivals Duke and North Carolina. Zion Williamson, a Duke freshman, pivoted with the ball above the foul line, and the sheer force of his 285-pound frame and acrobatic versatility appeared to cut the shoe almost in two, as though severed by a sharp knife.Former President Barack Obama, sitting on the sidelines at the Duke arena, was seen on video pointing at Williamson and appearing to say, “His shoe broke.”As the scene was replayed on countless highlight shows on Thursday, the damaged shoe threatened to become a nightmare for Nike, which pays tens of millions to elite college sports programs to be the exclusive sponsor for teams and supplier of their footwear.With his shoe split and his knee sprained, Williamson, an unpaid, budding superstar, sat helpless on the arena floor, staring at the shoe he was wearing in part because of a rich deal between Nike and Duke, one of the world’s wealthiest universities.Here were all the issues of big-time college sports laid bare: Should amateurism be curbed in college sports, allowing athletes a cut of the money they help produce? Should a prodigious talent like Williamson, who is good enough to play professionally right now, have to risk his future competing for free because of an N.B.A. rule prohibiting him from leaping to the league from high school? Do the sneaker companies, which were at the heart of a federal fraud trial near the start of the season, do more harm than good in college sports?For a quarter of a century, Nike has been paying Duke tens of millions of dollars to sponsor its teams, and to ensure that its athletes wear only footwear bearing the company’s ubiquitous logo. The players receive enough shoes to carry them through the season, allowing them to serve largely as free human billboards.“All this does,” Gabe Feldman, who directs Tulane’s sports law program, said of Williamson’s injury, “is put a magnifying glass on an issue that has existed for a long time.”Williamson has not commented.Nike stock closed down Thursday by 1.05 percent, as the world wondered how a sneaker could split so badly in the middle of a game.The answer remains a puzzle even to experts. James Gilbert, an orthopedic surgeon who worked with Duke athletics in the 1990s, said he had seen shoes fall apart similarly on soccer players, but never on the hardwood.“I think it’s a product failure,” Gilbert said. “I’ve never seen that. I had no idea that that happens.”In a statement Wednesday night, Nike said: “We are obviously concerned and want to wish Zion a speedy recovery. The quality and performance of our products are of utmost importance.” The statement called the shoe explosion “an isolated occurrence,” though in 2015, the Kenyan marathoner Eliud Kipchoge won the Berlin Marathon even as the insoles of his Nike shoes slipped out of place.Williamson, who has a mild knee sprain, will probably be sidelined for one to two weeks, and then continue being the favorite to become the No. 1 overall pick in the N.B.A. draft in June. By then, he will probably already be a millionaire, because of the endorsement deals he can sign when he ends his college career. For now, he is an N.C.A.A. amateur.Sneaker companies first became deeply involved with college athletics in the late 1970s, when an enterprising Nike executive, Sonny Vaccaro, arranged for several prominent coaches, such as John Thompson of Georgetown and Jerry Tarkanian of Nevada-Las Vegas, to receive money in exchange for outfitting their players in the company’s shoes. Starting in the late 1980s, Nike began to sign deals that covered all of a university’s teams.“Now we see the kids wearing the shoes and selling the product all over the world — and the kids never got anything,” Vaccaro, who left Nike years ago, said Thursday. “The money has served the same people, except for the most important ones.”A decision in a federal class-action lawsuit challenging N.C.A.A. restrictions on compensation is expected any day.Standout basketball players were squeezed further in 2006, when the N.B.A. barred talented teenagers from following in the footsteps of Kobe Bryant, Kevin Garnett and LeBron James by entering the league straight out of high school.Then, in September 2017, federal prosecutors in New York’s Southern District revealed more of the chasm between college basketball players, who can receive only scholarships and related costs of being on campus, and the administrators and coaches who reap the benefits of the revenue the athletes generate for their colleges, conferences and the N.C.A.A. itself. The men’s basketball tournament yields about $1 billion a year for the television rights.In three complaints filed in United States District Court in New York, prosecutors accused roughly a dozen assistant coaches, middlemen and employees of Adidas of plotting to funnel money to players’ families in exchange for pledges that the athletes, among other things, would play for certain universities and sign with Adidas once they began their pro careers. The scandal led to the firing of a Hall of Fame coach, Rick Pitino of the University of Louisville, and has netted three convictions, including of Adidas’s former director of global sports marketing.The transactions outlined by the complaints are practically the modus operandi at many top basketball programs, documents and testimony in the legal case suggested. Wiretaps revealed suspects describing at least one Adidas rival engaging in similar practices. Documents from the case reported by Yahoo Sports last year indicated that former top players at dozens of prominent programs — including Duke — had been on the payroll of an aspiring agent who has since been convicted of fraud.Duke did not reply to requests for comment Thursday.The specifics of Duke’s deal with Nike, which the two sides have extended through 2027, are not publicly known. As a private university, Duke is not obligated to reveal the terms.But a look at Nike deals with similar universities that are public offer some indication of how the contracts work.Nike’s deal with North Carolina, for instance, will give the university more than $90 million in cash and merchandise over 10 years. Nike also signed personal contracts with a number of North Carolina coaches: Roy Williams, the men’s basketball coach, will receive an average of $300,000 a year over the life of the 10-year agreement.Contracts generally state that Nike is not liable for injuries suffered by athletes wearing its products. The contracts also require every player to wear the company’s shoes unless a medical condition makes Nike footwear unsuitable. A player might, as stipulated in Nike’s deal with the University of Michigan, be required to make himself available for examination by Nike or a local podiatrist before using a shoe made by another company.It is not known why Williamson wore the particular Nike model that tore on Wednesday. It was a Nike “signature shoe,” a term for a style endorsed by a specific athlete — in this case, the N.B.A. star Paul George, who plays for the Oklahoma City Thunder.What makes Williamson so compelling is the same thing that might make a shoe unable to contain him. He combines size and speed with strength and agility in the manner of James, who during a day off this month went to Charlottesville, Va., to see Williamson and the Blue Devils take on Virginia. Though Williamson weighs 285 pounds, at times he seems like the fastest player on the court.“When you’re dealing with some of these athletes who are getting quicker, stronger, faster, you’ve got to consider some of that,” said Gilbert, the orthopedist.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byExtra BasesBy Tyler KepnerBased on the way they have started this season, Collin McHugh, C.C. Sabathia and Trevor Williams should be in high demand for interviews. The three starting pitchers — McHugh for the Houston Astros, Sabathia for the Yankees and Williams for the Pittsburgh Pirates — had combined to make nine starts before Friday’s games, with a 2.08 E.R.A.But McHugh, Sabathia and Williams enjoy asking questions, too. All three pitchers double as podcasters — a natural hobby, perhaps, for players who perform only once every five games.“We have way more time,” Sabathia said on Wednesday after recording his latest episode with the bullpen coach Mike Harkey. “Plenty of time to do stuff like that.”Sabathia and his co-host, Ryan Ruocco, a broadcaster for ESPN and the YES Network, release a new episode of “R2C2 Is Uninterrupted” every Thursday, speaking mostly with baseball, football and basketball players. Sabathia said his dream guest was the entertainer Will Smith, but lately he has settled for teammates like Gleyber Torres, J.A. Happ and James Paxton.“It’s less of an interview, I feel like, just more of a conversation,” said Sabathia, who is also working for ESPN in his final year as a player. “You get people to relax a little more, you get better stories. People are just more comfortable in that setting.”McHugh once kept a blog but transitioned to a new medium after listening to podcasts by the N.B.A. veteran JJ Redick of the Philadelphia 76ers, who regularly interviews players for a broadcast hosted by The Ringer.“I’m not a huge basketball fan, but it was just the idea of hearing league insiders talk about things that maybe you’ve thought about but never were really able to know if it was true or put a real voice to it,” McHugh said. “To hear two basketball players talking about what life on the road is like, what traveling is like, all these different things and just getting to hear their voices, that made basketball more interesting to me.“And I started thinking about: What is baseball missing? We’re missing this fan/human interaction. Everything’s getting really disconnected in terms of analytics, the fans and the players, there’s more of a gap than there’s ever been before. So what would be a way to bridge that?”McHugh is the lone host of “The Twelve Six,” named for the curveball, which breaks from 12 to 6 on a clock face. McHugh — whose recent episode with Washington Nationals closer Sean Doolittle was especially compelling — combines the probing questions of a good reporter with the credibility of a fellow major leaguer, in a casual, one-on-one setting.“As soon as you get more than one camera on a person, the honesty curve just goes way down, because guys are very reticent to say things that might be perceived the wrong way,” McHugh said. “But when it’s just two dudes sitting around, having a bottle of wine or a couple of beers and just talking, you’re way more likely to get more honest answers — which I think is a treasure, and a lot of capital in this day and age.”As for Williams, he and his co-host, Pirates reliever Steven Brault, have recorded most of their episodes during the off-season and thrive on topics far afield: favorite candy bars, Christmas songs, Pixar movies and so on.“Ours is more the fun side of players, reminding fans that we’re human beings, we’re not just baseball players and all we think about is baseball,” Williams said. “When we have guests on — other teammates or whoever — we first ask, ‘What are you passionate about, what’s a hobby that you have that isn’t baseball?’ So if it’s cooking: What’s your favorite food? If it’s sandwiches: What’s your favorite sandwich? Everyone has an opinion on their favorite things.”Williams, 26, has helped lead a Pirates rotation that entered Friday’s games with a 2.09 E.R.A., easily the best in the National League. Like the Hall of Fame pitchers Tom Seaver and Don Sutton, who each started broadcasting while they were still playing, to prepare for life after baseball, Williams enjoys his current profession while planning for his next.“Every time I’m in an interview, every time I’m in front of a TV camera, I feel like I’m trying out for my next job,” he said. “I’d love to be on TV, I’d love to do color commentary. But right now I’m a baseball player, and I’d like to do that for as long as I can.”Everyone knew why Brad Keller drilled Tim Anderson with a fastball to the hip on Wednesday afternoon in Chicago. Anderson, the White Sox’ shortstop, had earlier homered off Keller, the Kansas City Royals’ pitcher, and flung his bat triumphantly toward his dugout as the ball sailed to the seats. Keller delivered his displeasure at 92 miles per hour, well below the head.That should have been the end of it; Anderson did not charge the mound, and Keller’s message only served to put another runner on base for the White Sox. But the benches cleared and the umpire Joe West ejected four people, including Keller and Anderson, who were both suspended by Major League Baseball on Friday.Keller was given a five-game suspension and Anderson one, for using racially charged language directed at Keller in the immediate aftermath. (Keller is white and Anderson is black.) But the incident seemed to undercut M.L.B.’s #LetTheKidsPlay advertising campaign, which is meant to encourage the kind of self-expression that provoked the Royals to retaliate.Most players do not punctuate home runs with bat flips. But if some choose to celebrate that way, Anderson said, it should be a good thing. Anderson, 25, said younger players and fans can relate.“We’re in a new generation, a new wave, and this is the new school,” he said in an interview Thursday morning. “I get the old-school vibe, but this is the new school. We’re going to try and switch the vibe. The kids look up to us, and if we go out and play with a lot of energy and play to have fun, I think the kids would enjoy the game a lot more.”Anderson, who was hitting .422 through Thursday, said his reaction to the home run had nothing to do with the Royals. He was simply trying to inspire his team, which is built around young players like Eloy Jimenez and Yoan Moncada. He cited an N.B.A. player, Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder, as a model for how to act while in uniform.“I want to be the Westbrook of baseball,” Anderson said. “He goes out and plays with a high level every night and couldn’t care less what anybody else has to say. It’s really just bringing that energy and that positive vibe to the squad. That’s what I like to do, and I’m going to continue to do it. I’m not going to change.”Anderson has a charity — Anderson’s League of Leaders — that promotes community service and youth outreach in Chicago and his hometown, Tuscaloosa, Ala. Inspired by the death of his best friend, Branden Moss, to gun violence in 2017, Anderson tries to show leadership on the field by staying true to himself, even at the cost of a fastball to the hip.“I like to have fun,” he said, “and I’m not going to let anybody stop that.”When the Cincinnati Reds last won the World Series, in 1990, they clinched the title on a foul popout to first base by Carney Lansford of the Oakland Athletics. Lansford was a former batting champion, but hitting a popout was no reason to be ashamed. For most players, it is routine.Joey Votto, of course, is not like most players. Votto, the Reds’ first baseman, popped out to first base on Wednesday for the very first time in his career — in his 6,829th plate appearance. That leaves the Arizona Diamondbacks’ Alex Avila as the current leader in most career plate appearances without popping out to first, at a mere 3,285 through Thursday.Votto, a six-time All-Star, was hitting just .228 after the popout, which came in Los Angeles against the Dodgers’ Pedro Baez. C. Trent Rosecrans, the Reds’ beat writer for The Athletic, waited for Votto for 56 minutes after the game.Votto was not simply lingering in the lunchroom. To Votto, the popout was a sign that his technique was badly off.“There’s a reason I just spent an hour hitting after a day game after a night game,” Votto said. “It’s not good. It’s definitely not a good thing. I rarely do that. That’s why when I saw it, I was like, ‘Ugh, I’ve got a lot of work to do.’ But I’m going to put in the work. I’m confident it’s going to come.”One major leaguer actually hits into fewer pop-ups than Votto. According to MLB.com, Votto has popped up in 1.3 percent of his career plate appearances (almost always to the left of second base). Impressive, but not the best. Among hitters with at least 1,000 career trips to the plate, the Milwaukee Brewers’ Christian Yelich, at 1.2 percent, is the least likely to pop out.For Votto, at least, the post-pop-out-to-first phase of his career could not have started any better. After his long practice session on Wednesday, he started Thursday’s game in San Diego with a leadoff home run.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott Cacciola and Marc TracyLOS ANGELES — The criminal case involving one of President Trump’s leading adversaries and the world’s biggest shoe company has also ensnared an unlikely figure from the youth basketball world.The coach, Gary Franklin Sr., started his club from scratch in Los Angeles and ran a program known for its rectitude, according to Sonny Vaccaro, the former Nike and Adidas executive who essentially forged the relationship between the shoe industry and the summer youth basketball circuit. What began as a team for Franklin to coach his then 10-year-old son became a powerhouse club that attracted future N.B.A. stars and major college recruits, and one that steered clear of any scandals.“He was one of the guys who built it up through his own resources, and his program had a reputation as one of the ‘good guys,’” Vaccaro said of Franklin in an interview this week.Franklin’s club, California Supreme, and others like it are major participants in a system involving youth basketball, shoe companies and colleges that supplies the professional game with a deep reservoir of talent. And Michael Avenatti knew it.Now Franklin has become a central figure in the case against Avenatti, the lawyer best known for representing Stormy Daniels, the adult film star, in her lawsuit against President Trump. Whether Franklin, who has not been charged, is an accomplice, a co-conspirator or simply collateral damage is not yet clear, but prosecutors’ revelations about his involvement have stunned those who have known him for years.The question in the club basketball world is, could Franklin have morphed from a stickler who played by the rules into the latest symbol of an amateur basketball world that has spun out of control?“Cal Supreme was always the best team for doing things by the book, because there were a lot of other teams that didn’t do it by the book,” said Andy Brown, a former forward for Cal Supreme who went on to play at Stanford. “And Cal Supreme did it by the book.”California Supreme reached its zenith at the 2016 Peach Jam, a summertime showcase for the best travel basketball teams and players in the country. In the final event of the Nike-sponsored league, Deandre Ayton, a towering Bahamian who was about to turn 18, helped the team reel off a huge winning streak before Cal Supreme fell to the eventual champions.For Franklin, a soft-spoken coach from Los Angeles, the run was a triumph. His Nike-sponsored team was one of the best in the country in what is now known as grass-roots basketball.Three years later, Franklin, 51, is in a different spotlight, with federal prosecutors accusing Avenatti of extortion for threatening Nike with the release of information that Avenatti had pledged would damage the company’s stock-market value to the tune of a few billion dollars. Specifically, Avenatti had told Nike lawyers this month that a coach in Nike’s grass-roots basketball league had approached him with information that company employees had paid the families of three players, prosecutors said. Avenatti, prosecutors said, demanded that Nike pay millions to make the whole thing go away.Paying players and their families would violate N.C.A.A. rules, rendering the players ineligible for college play. Also, if the money was paid in exchange for players to commit to colleges Nike sponsors, it would resemble the behavior that recently led to federal fraud convictions for two former Adidas employees.Two people familiar with the investigation confirmed that the unidentified coach in the complaint is Franklin. Nike had recently declined to renew its sponsorship deal with Cal Supreme, which was worth more than $70,000 annually. Franklin could not be reached for comment.Grass-roots basketball is often erroneously called A.A.U. basketball, even in prosecutors’ court filings. That is a misnomer because the elite leagues are not sponsored by the Amateur Athletic Union. Rather, they are supported by sneaker companies that spend hundreds of thousands of dollars every year to organize tournaments from April through July. The teenage players who participate are outfitted, from head to toe, in apparel made by and bearing the logo of the league’s sponsor.Sneaker companies like Nike and Adidas also pay thousands of dollars each year to sponsor the teams themselves as a sort of long-term investment strategy: They hope to build brand loyalty among young players who could eventually become stars. Get players into your gear early, the thinking goes, and you may be more likely to land them as spokesmen when they turn pro and have even more influence over the world’s fans — and their wallets.“Sneaker companies want to make money,” said Dr. Todd Boyd, a professor at the University of Southern California who was the executive producer of a 2016 documentary, “At All Costs: Life Inside A.A.U. Basketball.” “That’s their objective. And if you have a kid who’s good enough to go on to the N.B.A., and he chooses to continue wearing these shoes, you’ve made a long-term investment that could pay off for years.”At the same time, the grass-roots basketball landscape has shifted in recent years as N.B.A. players like Bradley Beal, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony have increasingly become involved in forming their own teams. These are players who already have partnerships with shoe companies and can help subsidize costs on their own. Last year, Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder, who has an endorsement deal with Nike’s Jordan brand, organized a Los Angeles-based team that advanced to the playoffs at the Peach Jam.Franklin was far from the N.B.A. when he started his team.A flattering portrait of Franklin is included in “Play Their Hearts Out,” a 2010 book by George Dohrmann that details youth basketball culture in Southern California. Franklin, according to the book, played basketball and football at Los Angeles Valley College. Later, he doted on his son, Gary Jr., creating a club team he initially called the Runnin’ Rebels. He preached fundamentals during their practices at Manual Arts High School and spoke openly about his faith in God. Gary Franklin Jr. went on to play college basketball at Baylor.Cal Supreme did not have lavish resources. When Brown, the Stanford player, was with the team, it practiced at various Los Angeles-area high schools. Parents subsidized costs. And players paid for their own meals at tournaments.Yet neither Brown nor his teammates were naïve about the world they inhabited.“Everybody who played knew what was going on,” Brown said. “We all knew people who were getting paid, we all knew people who were getting free stuff — we all knew it. Now, it’s all coming out. So it’s shocking, but it’s not shocking, because we all knew it was happening.”For years, the sponsorship deals have been heavily dependent on grass-roots coaches’ attracting the best players to their programs. Cal Supreme appeared to have enough talent over the years to keep Nike interested, producing players who ultimately landed at major college programs like Southern California, Oregon and Arizona, along with several who went to the N.B.A.Big names circled in Cal Supreme’s orbit. Miles Simon, a guard who had won an N.C.A.A. championship while playing at Arizona, was one of the program’s coaches from 2011 to 2014. (Simon, who now works as an assistant for the Lakers, declined to comment through a Lakers spokeswoman.) Shareef O’Neal, a top-tier recruit and the son of Shaquille O’Neal, played for Cal Supreme before going to U.C.L.A. More recently, Percy Miller, the businessman and rapper known as Master P, was listed on Cal Supreme’s website as a team partner.Ayton, who spent a season at Arizona before the Phoenix Suns made him the top overall pick in the 2018 N.B.A. draft, was Cal Supreme’s highest-profile player. But in a twist, after years of wearing Nikes, Ayton signed a lucrative deal to wear Pumas when he went to the N.B.A. For Nike, it was an investment that did not pay off.It remains unclear whether Ayton’s deal played any role in Nike’s decision not to extend its sponsorship deal with Cal Supreme.Cassius Stanley, a top-30 recruit and a senior at Sierra Canyon High School outside Los Angeles, played for Cal Supreme in 2016 and for Westbrook’s team in 2018. His father, Jerome Stanley, who works as a lawyer, said that as far as he knew, Nike had never provided Cal Supreme players or their family members with benefits that would violate N.C.A.A. rules.“It is very sad that Coach Gary has gotten himself tangled up in this mess,” Stanley said. “I feel bad for him and his family, and I pray that he and his lawyers can help him move on and not be damaged or used any more than he has been the past few days.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressJaylen Brown scored 23 points and Kyrie Irving added 19 to help the Boston Celtics beat the host Indiana Pacers, 104-96, on Friday night for a 3-0 lead in the first-round Eastern Conference series.Irving also had 10 assists and 5 rebounds, and Jayson Tatum had 18 points and 7 rebounds for the Celtics, who can eliminate the Pacers on Sunday in Indianapolis.“We’re all making sure we’re giving each other confidence and doing the little things to ensure we win,” Irving said. “When you have that type of camaraderie, executing is a lot easier. Now that the stakes are higher, we’re settling into who we want to be.”Tyreke Evans matched his career playoff high with 19 points for Indiana, and Bojan Bogdanovic had 15, not enough to prevent the Pacers from losing their sixth straight to Boston in the regular season and the playoffs.The Celtics’ defense again turned the game, allowing just 12 points in the third quarter, as they put the Pacers on the brink of their second series sweep in three years.Indiana had erased a 15-point first half deficit to take a 61-59 halftime lead, and Myles Turner opened the third with a 3-pointer for the Pacers. But Boston charged back with 8 straight points to retake the lead and closed the quarter with a 9-2 run to make it 80-73.Boston gave up 8 points in the third quarter of Game 1 and 12 in the fourth quarter of Game 2.RAPTORS 98, MAGIC 83 Pascal Siakam had 30 points and 11 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard added 16 points, and Toronto held off host Orlando to take a 2-1 lead in their Eastern Conference first-round series.Siakam was 13 for 20 from the field, and the Raptors held Orlando to 36 percent shooting. Terrence Ross led Orlando with 24 points, and Nikola Vucevic shook off a slow start to finish with 22 points and 14 rebounds.Game 4 is Sunday night in Orlando.The Raptors trailed, 61-60, midway through the third quarter before going on a 16-0 run over the next four minutes to take the lead for good.Kyle Lowry’s 3-pointer with 7 minutes 48 seconds left gave Toronto its biggest lead, 86-69. The Magic rallied, and Ross’s 3-pointer with 41 seconds left cut the deficit to 96-93.Leonard was short with a jumper on the next possession, but the Magic could not control the rebound. Leonard made two free throws with 12.9 seconds remaining to make it a two-possession game again, and that closed the scoring.Orlando, which finished the regular season by winning 13 of its final 14 home games, was 13 of 44 from 3-point range.THUNDER 120, TRAIL BLAZERS 108 Russell Westbrook had 33 points and 11 assists and Oklahoma City won at home against Portland to cut its Western Conference series deficit to 2-1.Paul George added 22 points, Jerami Grant had 18 and Dennis Schroder 17 for the Thunder, who will host Game 4 on Sunday night.Damian Lillard scored 32 points for the Trail Blazers, but he had just 3 in the fourth quarter after scoring 25 in the third. C.J. McCollum had 21 points, and Enes Kanter added 19.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanEnes Kanter has found a new home with the Portland Trail Blazers.The 26-year-old center, who has averaged 14 points and 10.5 rebounds game this season, fell out of the Knicks’ rotation last month and was released last week after the N.B.A. trade deadline. Kanter announced his move Wednesday on Twitter.#RipCity⁠ ⁠ pic.twitter.com/4dTLXyZedgKanter continued to put up big numbers for the Knicks even after he was relegated to a bench role. Though limited defensively, he has a knack for low-post scoring and rebounding that led to 25 double-doubles for the Knicks this season. The most remarkable of them was a performance off the bench in November in which he had 23 points, 24 rebounds and 7 assists in a loss to the Chicago Bulls.Kanter joined the Knicks before the start of last season in the trade that sent Carmelo Anthony to Oklahoma City. He became a tabloid sensation because of his willingness to talk openly with reporters, and he occasionally ran afoul of opponents like LeBron James who considered his bark considerably worse than his bite.Kanter has also publicly addressed political issues in his native Turkey, and his criticism of the president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has left him something of a man without a country.Kanter will add depth to a Portland team that currently holds the No. 4 seed in the Western Conference. The Blazers, who already had Evan Turner and Seth Curry contributing off the bench, have added two prominent pieces, Kanter and Rodney Hood, a small forward acquired in a trade with Cleveland last week.Kanter’s play did not decline appreciably this season, but with the Knicks committed to a youth movement — and to keeping their win total low in pursuit of the No. 1 pick in the draft — there was no place for a productive center whose contract was set to expire at the end of this season. After acquiring DeAndre Jordan to help with the development of the rookie center Mitchell Robinson, the Knicks were unable to find a taker for Kanter, so they released him.Kanter had publicly complained about his treatment by the Knicks, but he wrote an open letter to fans after his release on Feb. 7, saying the team had always made him feel at home and that New York would always have “a special place in my heart.”Knicks Coach David Fizdale, who did not play Kanter in six of his last eight games with the team, said last week that he thought the decision to part ways could be good for Kanter.“I’m just hoping that he can land with a playoff team and get his feet wet into some winning,” Fizdale told reporters.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersMagic Johnson announced his resignation as Los Angeles Lakers president of basketball operations Tuesday night at an impromptu news conference before the team's regular-season finale.Johnson, a Hall of Famer from his playing days with the Lakers, said he is resigning because he doesn't enjoy the job."I was happier when I wasn't the president (of the Lakers)," the 59-year-old said.His announcement came on the heels of an ESPN report that he and coach Luke Walton have not spoken for weeks.Johnson said team owner Jeanie Buss had not been told of his decision in advance. He expressed his affection for Buss, saying, "I knew I couldn't be face-to-face and tell her. I couldn't stand to tell her."He was annoyed by being sanctioned by the NBA for tampering when talking to or about players on other teams.Johnson added about the day-to-day NBA business, "What I didn't like is the backstabbing and the whispering. I don't like a lot of things that went on that didn't have to go on."I hope that after (the season ends), the Lakers can head in the right direction, which we are. Injuries really hurt us, but I enjoyed working with Jeanie."Walton's future is in jeopardy after he failed to lead the Lakers to the postseason in the first season with LeBron James on the team. The Lakers entered the Tuesday night game against the Portland Trail Blazers with a 37-44 record.Walton, 39, is set to wrap up his third consecutive sub-.500 season with Los Angeles. He entered Tuesday with a career record of 98-147 for a .400 winning percentage.Buss has been a strong proponent of Walton but previously said she planned to let Johnson and general manager Rob Pelinka decide his future, according to ESPN. She said during a radio interview last week, "I will always defer to Magic."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Tech standout Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, announced Thursday he will forgo his last two seasons in Lubbock and declare for the 2019 NBA Draft.The 6-foot-5, 195-pound guard made the announcement during a press conference in Lubbock, Texas.Culver helped lead the Red Raiders to a share of the Big 12 regular-season title and was effective in this year's NCAA Tournament, where Texas Tech fell to Virginia 85-77 in overtime in the national championship game.On the season, Culver averaged 18.5 points, 6.4 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game while the Red Raiders set a school record with 31 wins.--Also announcing his plans to declare for the draft was 18-year-old Russian Nikita Mikhailovskii, according to a report by ESPN.The 6-foot-8, 180-pound wing is trying to become the first Russian player drafted since 2013 when Sergey Karasev was chosen with the 19th pick by the Cleveland Cavaliers.Mikhailovskii spent the past season playing in the mostly Russian VTB United League and FIBA Europe Cup, averaging 7.8 points in 16.8 minutes while shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range in 45 games.--The Memphis Grizzlies hired two former general managers to their front office, adding Rich Cho as vice president of strategy and Glen Grunwald as senior adviser.Cho is a former GM of the Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers, and Grunwald was GM of the New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors.The Grizzlies demoted former GM Chris Wallace to a scouting role in a flurry of moves last week, including the firing of head coach J.B. Bickerstaff and the promotion of Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations.--Los Angeles Clippers assistant general manager Trent Redden reportedly is close to interviewing for a senior front-office role with the New Orleans Pelicans.The Clippers gave the Pelicans permission to discuss the position with Redden, ESPN reported, citing league sources.David Griffin, the Pelicans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, worked closely with Redden when they with the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 2016 NBA championship season. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski noted that Griffin is expected to be "aggressive" in pursuing Redden.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaKenny Anderson, a celebrated point guard from Queens who had a 14-year N.B.A. career, was hospitalized over the weekend after suffering a stroke.Lina Catalfamo Plath, a family spokeswoman, said via email that Anderson was recovering. Plath also released a statement from Anderson’s wife, Natasha.“We would like to thank everyone for reaching out on behalf of Kenny,” Natasha Anderson said in the statement. “Our family is extremely grateful for all the prayers and love that we have received over the last few days. We appreciate you continuing to respect our privacy as Kenny heals.”Anderson, 48, recently concluded his first season as the men’s basketball coach at Fisk University, a historically black school in Nashville that plays at the N.A.I.A. level.As a high school player at Archbishop Molloy, a powerhouse program in Queens, Anderson was one of the most prolific and high-profile players in the city’s rich basketball history. A McDonald’s All-American, Anderson set what was then a state scoring record with 2,621 points before enrolling at Georgia Tech, where he helped the team reach the Final Four in 1990.After Anderson spent two seasons at Georgia Tech, the New Jersey Nets made him the second overall pick in the 1991 N.B.A. draft — Larry Johnson went first to the Charlotte Hornets — and Anderson enjoyed a productive career that never quite lived up to the hype that had followed him since he was a teenager. He averaged 12.6 points and 6.1 assists a game while playing for nine teams, including the Boston Celtics and the Portland Trail Blazers, and was an All-Star selection for the Nets in 1994.A 2017 documentary on Anderson called “Mr. Chibbs” detailed many of his personal struggles, including bankruptcy and depression. In 2014, he traveled to North Korea as a member of the team that Dennis Rodman, the former Chicago Bulls forward, cobbled together at the invitation of Kim Jong-un, the country’s leader.“My mistakes weren’t really mistakes,” Anderson said in an interview with The New York Times in 2011. “It was being young and living and learning. Yes, I spent a lot of money; I went through a lot of money. I had some failed marriages — if you want to criticize me for that. You can’t cry about your mishaps. I count my blessings, I don’t count my mishaps.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHere are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a career-high 37 points in his first start of the season and the Portland Trail Blazers secured the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference with a dramatic 136-131 victory over the Sacramento Kings using just six players Wednesday night.The Blazers have won 14 of 17 games en route to their sixth straight trip to the playoffs. Portland will open the postseason against the Oklahoma City Thunder, who finished in sixth.Portland had already clinched homecourt advantage in the opening round with a 104-101 victory over the Los Angeles Lakers the night before.Denver beat the Timberwolves 99-95 Wednesday night, locking the Nuggets into the No. 2 seed and a first-round series against San Antonio, and giving Portland the opening to claim the third seed. The Jazz secured the No. 4 seed and will play fifth-seeded Houston.Portland trailed by 28 points during the second half but made it interesting in the fourth quarter by closing within 117-116 with 7:53 left on Simon's 3-pointer. Simons found Jake Layman for an alley-oop dunk to pull the Blazers in front.Portland pushed the lead to 128-119 on Layman's basket with 2:49 left. Simons hit his seventh 3-pointer to make it 131-123 with just over two minutes left and Sacramento couldn't catch up.Marvin Bagley III had 20 points to lead the Kings, who lost their 11th straight game in Portland.Blazers coach Terry Stotts said before the game that guard CJ McCollum would rest because it was the second of a back-to-back. McCollum missed 10 games with a left knee injury and had just been back for Portland's last two games.As for his other players, Stotts said going in that it was "fluid." Damian Lillard was available but did not play. Neither did any of the team's other regular starters, as Stotts went with Skal Labissiere, Layman, Meyers Leonard, Gary Trent, Jr. and Simons. Trent, Simons and Labissiere were making their first starts of the season."Our goal was to get homecourt, which we got. Whatever happens tonight, happens," Stotts said. "If you overthink it, you get in trouble."The Kings' season is over, but coach Dave Joerger said he was encouraged."We haven't been great for the last couple of weeks, but I don't want that to dull the shine on what has been a terrific season of development and competitiveness, and competitive spirit, of laying down a foundation and an identity, a lot of success and a lot of good moments," Joerger said. "I feel good about that, and I feel good about where we can be in the future."The Kings stayed with their regular starters and went up by 11 points in the opening quarter. They extended the lead to 26 points during the second and were up 87-62 at the break. Da'Aaron Fox led the Kings with 17 points and nine assists at halftime.Joerger went to his reserves in the second half.TIP-INSKings: Joerger was asked before the game why the Kings had not won in Portland since 2012. He replied: "LaMarcus Aldridge, Damian Lillard, CJ McCollum, Wesley Matthews."Trail Blazers: Sacramento's 87 first-half points were the most Portland had allowed in the half this season. ... Simons became just the 11th rookie in franchise history to have a 30-point game.UP NEXTSacramento's season is over.The Trail Blazers will face the Oklahoma City Thunder in a game TBD.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — Damian Lillard scored 30 points to lead the Portland Trail Blazers to a 115-108 victory over a Denver Nuggets team that rested its top three scorers Sunday night after securing home-court advantage in the playoffs.Al-Farouq Aminu added 23 points and 11 rebounds for Portland, which held on to fourth place in the Western Conference with two games remaining. The win snapped a six-game losing streak to the Nuggets.Gary Harris had 18 points for Denver, which played without Nikola Jokic, Paul Millsap and Jamal Murray.After trailing by 14 points in the first half, Denver closed the gap in the second half and pulled to 92-91 on Torrey Craig's 3-pointer before taking the lead on free throws.The teams traded the lead but Juancho Hernangomez hit a 3-pointer that put the Nuggets in front 104-98 with 5:14 left.Lillard's 3-pointer put the Blazers ahead 107-106 and Enes Kanter extended the lead with a layup with 2:18 left. Aminu added free throws and a reverse layup that made it 114-106 and sealed the win.The Blazers got back CJ McCollum, who was out for 10 games with a left knee injury. Coach Terry Stotts said before the game that his minutes would be restricted, but McColllum played 25 minutes and had nine points.The Nuggets defeated the Blazers just two days before. Jokic had 22 points, 13 rebounds and nine assists, and Denver clinched the Northwest Division title with a 119-110 victory on Friday night. It was the team's first division title in six years.The Nuggets were assured of at least the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference and can clinch the second seed with two more wins. They haven't been the No. 2 seed since the 2008-09 season.But with home-court clinched, the Nuggets sat Jokic, Millsap and Murray against the Blazers."We just want to make sure we're healthy, rested and playing as well as we can going in," coach Michael Malone said.Portland started the day a game up on Utah for the fourth seed. The Jazz played the Lakers on Sunday night. The Rockets held on to the No. 3 seed with a 149-113 win over the Suns.The Nuggets led by eight points in the opening minutes, but Portland caught up and took a 29-25 lead going into the second quarter. Portland stretched the lead to 14 before heading to the break with a 60-49 lead.Portland reserve guard Seth Curry, who sat out Friday's game with leg soreness, came off the bench to lead all scorers with 11 points at the break.The Nuggets closed the gap in the third quarter, outscoring Portland 12-2 to get within 73-72 on Lyles' basket. Denver was unable to pull in front.TIP INSNuggets: Denver won the previous five games against the Blazers. ... Denver missed out on the playoffs for the past two seasons. ... Mason Plumlee fouled out with 1:38 left.Trail Blazers: With his first 3-pointer, Lillard passed his franchise record of 229 3s set in the 2015-16 season. With his second, he reached 1,500 for his career. ... Portland went 8-2 without McCollum. ... Kanter had 11 points and 13 rebounds for his fourth double-double in five games.UP NEXTNuggets: At Utah on Tuesday before hostingMinnesota on Wednesday to end the season.Trail Blazers: At the Lakers on Tuesday before wrapping up the season at home against Sacramento on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressKyrie Irving scored 37 points and the Boston Celtics rallied late in the fourth quarter to beat the Indiana Pacers by 99-91 on Wednesday night. The win gave Boston a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven, first-round seriesComing out of a timeout and with a chance to tie, the Pacers’ Wesley Matthews threw an inbounds pass into the bench on the other side of the court with 12.1 seconds left. On the ensuing play, the Celtics’ Al Horford passed to Jayson Tatum, who was fouled on a two-handed dunk. He completed the three-point play to make it 97-91 with 8.8 seconds left.The Pacers turned it over again and the Celtics were able to close out the game at the free throw line.Tatum scored 26 points, including a thunderous dunk down the stretch to help punctuate a 10-0 run by Boston over the final five minutes.[Read: Jayson Tatum has a daily reminder of the booming dunk he delivered on LeBron James last year.]Bojan Bogdanovic led Indiana with 23 points. Thaddeus Young added 15 points.Indiana led by 79-68 entering the fourth. Horford opened the final period scoring on a hook shot in the lane and Tyreke Evans responded with a 3-pointer on Indiana’s first possession.But then Boston caught fire, using a 16-0 run, including eight straight by Irving, to take an 86-82 lead with 5:04 to play. Indiana missed 10 straight shots during the run, finally breaking a nearly eight-minute scoring drought with a 3-pointer by Matthews in front of the Celtics’ bench.Horford had been a game-time decision with an illness, but was able to remain in the Celtics’ starting lineup. He was noticeably a step slower at the outset and didn’t take his first shot until late in the second quarter. He didn’t score his first points until the fourth, finishing with four points, 10 rebounds and four assists for the game.Game 3 is Friday in Indiana.BUCKS 120, PISTONS 99 Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points in Milwaukee’s big third quarter and the Bucks beat the Detroit Pistons, 120-99, on Wednesday night to take a 2-0 lead in the first-round playoff series.Eric Bledsoe led the Bucks with 27 points, and Khris Middleton had 24. Milwaukee is trying win a playoff series for the first time since 2001.Luke Kennard had 19 points for Detroit. Reggie Jackson and Andre Drummond each added 18, and Drummond had 16 rebounds. Detroit star Blake Griffin sat out again with a left knee injury, but received a technical for the second straight game for arguing from the bench.After scoring 10 points and playing only 14 minutes in the first half because of foul trouble, Antetokounmpo scored Milwaukee’s first seven points in the third quarter. The Bucks outscored Detroit 35-17 in the period to take a 93-76 lead into the fourth.Detroit clawed within seven in the fourth before the Bucks put it away, capped by a hard drive by Antetokounmpo on a break. He banked in an awkward reverse-angle shot while crashing to the floor after being fouled by Drummond. He competed the three-point play it make it 105-87.Game 3 is Saturday night in Detroit.GRIZZLIES HIRE EXECUTIVES The Memphis Grizzlies have hired Rich Cho as vice president of basketball strategy and Glen Grunwald as a senior adviser within the franchise’s basketball operations department.Cho is a former Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers general manager. Grunwald was general manager of the Knicks and the Toronto Raptors.Before coming to Portland, Cho was an assistant general manager with the Seattle SuperSonics and continued in that role when the franchise became the Oklahoma City Thunder. Grunwald worked with the Knicks from 2006-13, serving as executive vice president and general manager for the final two seasons of that stretch. He was Toronto’s general manager from 1997 to 2004.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOKLAHOMA CITY — Russell Westbrook called his play in Game 2 "unacceptable."It was more than acceptable in Game 3. He had 33 points and 11 assists and the Oklahoma City Thunder beat the Portland Trail Blazers 120-108 on Friday night to cut their series deficit to 2-1.Thunder forward Paul George called Westbrook a man of his word."He led, we got behind him and he put us on his back," George said.George scored 22 points, Jerami Grant had 18 and Dennis Schroder 17 for the Thunder. They will host Game 4 of the best-of-seven series on Sunday night.Damian Lillard scored 32 points, but he had just three in the fourth quarter after scoring 25 in the third. He made 8 of 11 shots in the third quarter, but missed all four of his field goals in the fourth."Their defense pretty much stayed the same," Lillard said of Oklahoma City's fourth-quarter strategy. "They got a little more aggressive on the ball. Instead of just trying to stay in front of me, they were coming up a little higher."C.J. McCollum had 21 points and Enes Kanter added 19 for the Trail Blazers.Oklahoma City closed the second quarter on a 10-1 run to take a 49-39 lead. Lillard was held to four points on 2 -for-6 shooting and the Trail Blazers shot 37.5% in the half.George hit a 3-pointer, was fouled and made the free throw in the opening minutes of the second half to push Oklahoma City's lead to 55-43. Westbrook backed down Lillard, hit a bank shot and was fouled. Westbrook brought out his "rock the baby" celebration, then made the free throw to put Oklahoma City up by 15."I didn't even see him do it," Lillard said. "A lot of times, I'm waiting for the ball to be inbounded, so I'm not looking at what's going on the other way. So rock the baby on a jump shot? I mean, you can do that all day."Whether Lillard was inspired or not, he scored 23 points the rest of the quarter to help cut Oklahoma City's lead to 86-82 at the end of the period. McCollum hit a 3-pointer to tie the game at 89 early in the fourth.Oklahoma City regained control, then kept it. Westbrook hit a wild 26-foot 3-pointer over Lillard with 1:20 to go that put the Thunder up by 14, then he told Lillard all about it.TIP-INSTrail Blazers: Westbrook usually says "Next question" when Oklahoman columnist Berry Tramel asks him anything. During the pregame media session, Portland coach Terry Stotts went up to the podium with a smile, looked at Tramel and said, "Go ahead, Berry. I'll answer your question," drawing laughter from the reporters. Westbrook gave Tramel his typical response after the game. ... F Maurice Harkless was called for a technical in the final minute for throwing his headband.Thunder: Derek Williamson of Midwest City, Oklahoma, had 24 seconds to make a half-court shot for $20,000 from MidFirst Bank. He drained his last try. Later, Jesse Norman of Prague, Oklahoma, made one for another $20,000. ... Grant hit a 3-pointer in the opening minute after missing his first eight in the series. ... Westbrook was called for a technical in the final minute.CONTROVERSIAL DUNKGeorge threw down a monster dunk right after time expired that didn't count.Lillard wasn't impressed."Typically people say you shouldn't do stuff like that, but honestly, I really couldn't care less," he said. "The game had been decided. If that's something that they needed to do to make themselves feel more dominant or feel better, then so be it."REVERSING COURSEThe Thunder made 10 of 61 3-pointers in the first two games in Portland. They made 15 of 29 in Game 3.Grant made 4 of 5 3s and guard Terrance Ferguson made 3 of 4 attempts."They've been hitting shots all year," Westbrook said. "I'm going to make the right play. The guys on the floor made the right play and I'm going to continue to trust my teammates."______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherIt was a humble TV listing, informing readers that the Knicks would be playing the Washington Bullets on MSG that night. The short item noted that “The Knicks tried double-teaming Jeff Ruland in the second of those games, but the tactic didn’t work: He responded with a triple double-digit effort — 22 points, 12 rebounds and 10 assists.”It was Dec. 29, 1984. And for the very first time, The New York Times had cited the triple-double.On Monday night, Russell Westbrook completed an unprecedented 10th consecutive triple-double, with 21 points, 14 rebounds and 11 assists as the Oklahoma City Thunder defeated the Portland Trail Blazers. Westbrook broke the record of nine, set by Wilt Chamberlain in 1968.The moment Russ passed Wilt for the longest triple-double streak 🔥 pic.twitter.com/xTytZdyzDdBut while triple-doubles are no longer uncommon — Westbrook’s teammate Paul George turned in an even more immpressive line (47 points, 10 rebounds, 12 assists) on Monday — the term is relatively new. Like Chamberlain, some of the greatest practitioners made every one of their triple-doubles when triple-doubles were not even a thing.The Times quickly embraced the triple-double. Two days after its debut, the label made it into an ordinary sports article, this time without the clunky words “digit” or “effort.” Precedent had been set.In those early days, some of the references to triple-double in The Times were in quotes, as if editors were afraid that the new term would pollute the newspaper’s august pages. Eventually the arbiters of style settled on no quotes, and a hyphen in between the two words.The first triple-double in Basketball-Reference’s database is from 1950, when Andy Phillip of the Philadelphia Warriors tallied 17 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists, although there were almost certainly others before that when stat keeping was less precise and complete.Harvey Pollack, the longtime 76ers stats guru, is generally credited with inventing the term in the early 1980s, inspired by Magic Johnson, who made a habit of triple-doubling. (Ruland, though he was the Times’s triple-double pioneer, claimed only five in his career.)There are also double-doubles — the career record is held by Chamberlain — and quadruple doubles, for those who can also manage 10 blocks or steals. That has only happened a handful of times in the N.B.A., and not since David Robinson in 1994.There are even quintuple doubles, a stupefying exploit — 25 points, 18 rebounds, 11 assists, 10 steals and 10 blocks — performed by the women’s star Tamika Catchings when she was in high school in 1997.Westbrook has taken the triple-double to new heights, though, actually averaging a triple-double for the last two seasons. He is on pace to do so again this season. And unlike his early predecessors, he is keenly aware of the stat, often looking to add that one more assist or rebound that he needs late in a game.Westbrook now has 127 total triple-doubles, closing in on Johnson, the inspiration for the term, who has 138.But above all of them is Oscar Robertson, the only other man to average a triple-double; he had 181 in his Hall of Fame career.His last one came in 1974, when the feat was still unnamed, at least in The Times.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherIt is, with rare exceptions, the era of the freshman in college basketball. Across the country, elite teams are led by teenagers who hit town for a few months, maybe win a few dozen games and even a title, and then head to the lucrative world of the pros.The N.B.A.’s so-called “one and done” rule, which bars 18-year-olds from playing in the league, has been at the heart of this transformation. Since its formalization more than a decade ago, the rule had led young players to opt for only a year of college ball — a pit stop on the way to the N.B.A. — but its effect has been to reshape the college game, and to make it unrecognizable to grumbling traditionalists.So how many one-and-dones, the college freshmen expected to be 2019 N.B.A. draft picks, are playing critical roles for Final Four teams this season?Zero.None of the freshmen on the four teams left in the N.C.A.A. men’s tournament are averaging more than 6 points a game, and the only Final Four players likely to be drafted in June are upperclassmen. Sophomores, juniors and even (gasp) seniors are leading the way for Virginia, Michigan State, Texas Tech and Auburn.And it is not just this year. Freshman stars have not dominated any recent Final Fours, either. There was just one drafted one-and-done player in the 2018 Final Four, Omari Spellman of Villanova, who was selected 30th over all. There were two in 2017 and one in 2016, with only Zach Collins of Gonzaga, now with the Portland Trail Blazers, being drafted in the top 20.While the phenomenon of talented young players’ spending only a year in college has certainly had an effect on the game, it turns out that for the most part it has not reshaped it — at least in championship terms — at all.One big reason for the lack of one-and-dones in the Final Four for the last four years has been the absence of Kentucky and Duke — two programs that have come to rely on them. In fact, a trend that was supposed to reinvent college basketball has mostly restricted itself over the years to those two colleges and a few others. Duke has four potential one-and-dones this season; Kentucky has two. But both teams were eliminated in the regional final round over the weekend. (North Carolina, with two possible one-and-dones this season, lost in the round of 16.)The one-and-done era began in 2006 when the N.B.A., concerned about a few high-profile young busts, decided it would raise the age limit for players to 19. That left most high school stars with a year to kill before they could begin their pro career in the United States. In many cases, the best ones decided to spend that year in Lexington, Ky., or Durham, N.C.Ohio State was an early adopter, too, riding the freshmen Greg Oden, Mike Conley and Daequan Cook to the championship game in 2007. But soon Kentucky and Coach John Calipari became the masters of the art form.Kentucky made the Final Four four times in five years with freshmen as key elements, winning one national title. In 2011, it had Brandon Knight. In 2012, it won with Anthony Davis, Michael Kidd-Gilchrist and Marquis Teague. In 2014, it had Julius Randle and James Young. All of them were drafted in the first round a few months after their only college season ended. (A year before that run started, Kentucky lost in a 2010 regional final with John Wall and DeMarcus Cousins.)In 2015, the one-and-done trend appeared to reach its apotheosis as six future freshman first-rounders turned up for the Final Four. Kentucky arrived with Devin Booker, Trey Lyles and Karl-Anthony Towns, but Duke won it all with Jahlil Okafor, Justise Winslow and Tyus Jones.Neither team has been back to the Final Four since. And the flow of elite one-and-done players, at least on the game’s biggest stage, has slowed considerably.Regardless of its impact, though, the one-and-done era may be coming to a close. In February, reports emerged that the N.B.A. had formally proposed lowering its age limit to 18, perhaps by 2022, meaning that the nation’s best high schoolers would again be able to follow players like Moses Malone, Kobe Bryant and LeBron James and skip a campus cameo.Hidebound college basketball fans seeking a return to the good old days may feel relieved. But they may not have noticed that the old game never changed quite as much as they thought it had.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — At the end of a disastrous season in which the Los Angeles Lakers failed to make the playoffs, despite having added LeBron James via free agency, Magic Johnson made the stunning announcement on Tuesday that he was stepping down as the team’s president of basketball operations.Johnson delivered the news at an impromptu news conference before the Lakers’ regular-season finale, against the Portland Trail Blazers, and he said he had not yet informed Jeanie Buss, the team’s controlling owner. In fact, he had told nearly no one before he addressed a mass of hastily assembled reporters.“I couldn’t face her to tell her,” he said, referring to Buss. He later added that he would find her at Staples Center to address her in person.Earvin, I loved working side by side with you. You’ve brought us a long way. We will continue the journey. We love you 💜💛 https://t.co/ofmQl6BtBzLater, the team released a statement, calling Johnson “not only a Lakers icon, but our family.”[Magic Johnson’s biggest moments running the Lakers.]“There is no greater Los Angeles Laker than Earvin Johnson,” the statement read, using Johnson’s formal name. “We are deeply grateful to Magic for all that he has done for our franchise — as a player, an ambassador and an executive.”The statement continued, “As we begin the process of moving forward, we will work in a measured and methodical fashion to make the right moves for the future of our organization.”“Measured” and “methodical” would be an about-face from the way Johnson stepped down. It was a surreal scene as he fielded questions for nearly 45 minutes after he made his announcement, appearing to hold back tears at times, and repeatedly said that he loved Buss like a sister. He then posed for pictures with team employees, former teammates and a local news anchor.“I want to go back to having fun,” Johnson, 59, said. “I want to go back to being who I was before taking on this job, and we’re halfway there with LeBron coming. I think this summer, with that other star coming in — whoever’s going to come in — I think this team is going to be in position to really contend for a championship with the growth of the other young players.”Johnson was named to the post in February 2017 and said at the time that it was “a dream come true.” But on Tuesday he said that he wanted to get back to being a mentor and a businessman, and that he had felt limited in his ability to do those things in his current role.For example, he said he was upset that he could not attend Dwyane Wade’s final game for the Miami Heat on Tuesday night — or congratulate Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder on Twitter for finishing the regular season averaging another triple-double. (Johnson said the league would have considered it “tampering.”)Johnson also said that he had received a phone call last week from the tennis star Serena Williams, asking if he would be an adviser to her.“When Serena called me, wow, that’s who I am,” Johnson said. “I love helping people.”He added: “I like to be free. And then I got a great life outside of this. What am I doing? I got a beautiful life, so I’m going to go back to that beautiful life, and I’m looking forward to it.”But there is palace intrigue at play, too — these are the Lakers, after all — and Johnson strongly indicated that he had been leaning toward firing Coach Luke Walton. Buss, though, is known to think highly of Walton, a former Laker who has been the team’s coach for three seasons, and Johnson suggested that he did not want to go through with it.“I would have to affect someone’s livelihood and their life,” Johnson said, “and I thought about that. That’s not fun for me. That’s not who I am, and then I don’t want to put her in the middle of us, even though she said, ‘Hey, do what you want to do.’ I know she has great love for him.”The Lakers, who have been downtrodden in recent years, are still one of the most glamorous franchises in the league, and Johnson, who helped the Lakers win five championships as a Hall of Fame point guard, remains one of the organization’s most popular figures.Johnson was hired to replace Jim Buss, the brother of Jeanie Buss. Johnson, who had previously been a partial owner of the team as well, worked alongside Rob Pelinka, a former agent, who was brought in as the team’s general manager. (Johnson said that he had not told Pelinka of his decision to step down, either.)While Johnson had some memorable moments at the helm of the Lakers’ operation, the roster that he and Pelinka built around James was widely considered inadequate. After losing to Portland in their finale, the Lakers had a record of 37-45, which assured them of missing the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season. It is the first losing effort by a James-led team since the star forward’s rookie season in 2003-04, when his Cleveland Cavaliers went 35-47.On Tuesday, Johnson preached patience.“I’m excited about the direction,” he said before he headed out the door.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Vast upheaval within the Los Angeles Lakers organization continued on Friday afternoon when the team announced that Luke Walton was stepping down as coach.The Lakers said in a statement that Walton and the team had “mutually agreed to part ways,” without elaborating. The news came three days after Magic Johnson, the team’s president for basketball operations, made the surprise announcement that he was resigning so he could devote more time to his business interests.Walton, 39, was in his third season with the Lakers, who were expected to vie for a playoff spot after signing LeBron James, a four-time N.B.A. most valuable player, to a four-year, $154 million contract last July. Instead, the Lakers scuffled to a 37-45 record after months of general dysfunction and momentum-sapping injuries. They finished 10th in the Western Conference, well out of playoff position.The N.B.A.’s postseason will start Saturday but without the Lakers, whose postseason drought is now at six seasons. Not even the celebrated addition of James could salvage this one, but he missed significant time with a groin injury. And even when he was on the court, he appeared detached from his teammates as weeks of misery mounted.The Lakers are fraught with problems. When Johnson announced that he was quitting this week, he indicated that he had been planning to fire Walton and that he had the support of Jeanie Buss, the team’s controlling owner, to go forward with the move. But then Johnson resigned — in part, he said, because he could not go through with affecting someone’s “livelihood.”Hours later, after the Lakers had closed out their season with a loss to the Portland Trail Blazers, Walton said that he was looking forward to an eventful summer with the team in hopes of making improvements. Now he is gone, too, though he may not be unemployed for long.The Sacramento Kings immediately responded to Friday’s news by reaching out to Walton’s representatives to arrange an interview for their coaching vacancy, according to two people familiar with Sacramento’s plans who were not authorized to discuss them publicly. Walton is considered the front-runner to replace Dave Joerger, whom the Kings fired this week.Steve Kerr, the coach of the Golden State Warriors, expressed his support for Walton, one of his former assistants.“In this job, as a coach in the N.B.A., you are 100 percent dependent on your circumstances: the strength of your organization, the momentum, unity,” Kerr told reporters in Oakland, Calif. “Everything has to be in good order, because if it’s not, as we have witnessed with the Lakers, then there’s going to be casualties, and usually the coach is the first one.”He added: “They’re losing one of the best humans in the N.B.A. They’re losing a guy who knows the game as well as anybody I’ve met. They’re losing somebody who players believe in.”Walton, the son of the Hall of Fame center Bill Walton, was working with an ill-conceived roster that lacked depth, defense and perimeter shooting. Still, the pressure was on him before the season even began. Once the Lakers got off to a slow start, Johnson chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting, raising speculation that Walton was already on the hot seat.Questions about Walton’s job security persisted throughout the season as he shuffled rotations and lineups, searching for solutions that never materialized.Walton refused to make excuses — publicly, he was a voice of unwavering optimism amid a sea of discontent — but it hardly helped that the Lakers were troubled by injuries, especially at point guard.Then there was James, who had been incredibly durable in his 16-year career. But during the Lakers’ Christmas Day game against the Warriors, he limped off the court with a strained groin and missed the next 17 games. Without him, the Lakers struggled. The hope was that they could regain their footing once he returned, but he was not the cure-all anyone imagined. The Lakers continued to lose with James back in the lineup, even though he said he had “activated” himself for a playoff push.It had become clear by then, however, that the Lakers did not have any discernible chemistry, especially after Johnson and Rob Pelinka, their general manager, tried and failed to acquire the All-Star center Anthony Davis from the New Orleans Pelicans ahead of February’s trade deadline. (It was no coincidence, perhaps, that Davis and James shared an agent, Rich Paul.) The Lakers were willing to send the Pelicans several of their promising young players, including Kyle Kuzma, Brandon Ingram and Lonzo Ball, but were rebuffed in their attempts to swing a blockbuster deal.The result was a team that seemed distracted at best and fractured at worst. Before long, the Lakers were officially eliminated from playoff contention. James did not dress for the final six games of the season.Walton, who spent most of his 10-year N.B.A. playing career with the Lakers, winning two championships as a reserve forward, was hired as their coach in 2016 after two seasons as an assistant with the Warriors. In 2015-16, he began the season as the Warriors’ interim coach while Kerr recovered from debilitating back issues, and guided the team to a 39-4 record, which included a league-record 24 straight wins to start the season.It was certainly an achievement, but the Warriors were coming off a championship and primed to excel. With the Lakers, Walton was trying to build something. Now, that vast project — however onerous — will continue without him.Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinCHARLOTTE, N.C. — The New Orleans Pelicans abruptly fired Dell Demps, their general manager, on Friday amid continuing uncertainty about the future of forward Anthony Davis.In an announcement Friday, the team said that the Pelicans and Demps “decided to mutually part ways” after discussions that morning.Gayle Benson, the Pelicans’ owner, made the move after New Orleans defeated Oklahoma City at home on Thursday, according to two people who were not authorized to discuss the decision publicly.ESPN described Benson as “livid” with widely circulated television footage of Davis leaving the arena in the second half of Thursday’s game after suffering a shoulder injury, although it was later reported that he had left to undergo an M.R.I. exam.Davis arrived in Charlotte on Friday for All-Star Weekend, hoping to play in Sunday’s All-Star Game if his shoulder recovers sufficiently.Benson had been contemplating an in-season change in the front office for weeks, to start plotting a new course for the franchise without Davis, according to the two people with knowledge of the situation.Benson owns the Pelicans and the N.F.L.’s New Orleans Saints and had Demps reporting to Mickey Loomis, the Saints’ general manager. Danny Ferry, a Pelicans executive who has been a general manager in Cleveland and Atlanta, will serve as Demps’s interim replacement.It is uncertain how the change will affect the long-term future of Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry, who has won plaudits for guiding the team through the Davis saga and for largely serving as the team’s spokesman during the drama.Gentry, however, had trouble stifling his frustration after the Oklahoma City game, telling reporters of the Davis situation, “To tell you the truth, this whole thing has been a dumpster fire.”New Orleans hired Demps in July 2010. He handled the complicated exit of Chris Paul via trade in December 2011 and drafted Davis No. 1 overall in June 2012. He also traded for Jrue Holiday, a highly rated guard, and, in his biggest move, negotiated a deal for center DeMarcus Cousins, then with Sacramento, during the 2017 All-Star Weekend in New Orleans.The Pelicans, though, made the playoffs just three times in Demps’s eight seasons and have consistently suffered from a lack of depth in support of Davis and Holiday. New Orleans appeared to be trending in a good direction last season, with Davis flanked by Cousins and Holiday, but Cousins sustained a season-ending Achilles’ tendon tear in January 2018 that ultimately led to his departure through free agency last summer.Plagued by a steady stream of injuries this season, New Orleans has not been able to match its performance last season: a 48-34 regular-season record even after losing Cousins and a first-round playoff sweep of the Portland Trail Blazers.Davis, through his agent Rich Paul, requested a trade Jan. 28 when he informed the Pelicans that he would not sign a five-year, $240 million contract extension the club can offer him July 1. The request came just 10 days before the league’s annual trade deadline, leaving little time to construct a trade with sufficient return for a player of his caliber.But New Orleans immediately made it clear that it intended to keep Davis through the deadline and into the off-season, when other teams — the Boston Celtics in particular — would be in a better position to make a compelling offer.Davis is under contract through next season, but it has been widely anticipated throughout the league that New Orleans would have to trade him as soon as it was clear Davis planned to reject an extension.N.B.A. players are not allowed to openly seek trades, and Davis was fined $50,000 because Paul went public with his client’s request.In an interview Thursday with a small group of reporters, Charles Barkley, the Hall of Famer and outspoken TNT commentator, blasted Davis and Paul for the timing of the trade demand. Barkley said Davis’s winding up with the Lakers has been a likely outcome from the moment Davis hired Paul as his agent in September. Paul also represents LeBron James, the Lakers’ superstar.“At some point Anthony Davis is going to be with the Lakers,” Barkley said. “The fix is in. I actually got a call from Rich Paul. I said: ‘Dude, the fix is in. You know he’s going to the Lakers.’“This is a bad situation,” Barkley said. “This is a bad look for the N.B.A.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bykeeping scoreHarden’s 57 points against Memphis accounted for more than half of his team’s total helping make up for his lack of a supporting cast.By Benjamin HoffmanNo Chris Paul. No Eric Gordon. No Clint Capela. No problem. The Houston Rockets still have James Harden.In a mind-boggling performance, Harden and his supporting cast — if you can call it that — managed to beat the Memphis Grizzlies by 112-94 at Houston’s Toyota Center, with Harden scoring 57 points in 34 minutes.It was the 17th game in a row in which Harden scored at least 30 points — a feat previously accomplished in a single season by only Wilt Chamberlain — and it was Harden’s third game of 50 or more points this season. No other player has more than one.Coach Mike D’Antoni may have recorded the 600th win of his N.B.A. career in the game, but he was more interested in making sure people recognized the greatness of Harden’s feat.“What he just did, we kind of take it for granted a little bit,” D’Antoni told reporters. “It’s like, ‘Oh, look at that, isn’t that cute?’ It’s 57!” Harden, however, tried to keep the focus on Houston continuing to climb in the standings, and making up for Sunday’s loss to Orlando.“I don’t know if it was an emotional lift,” Harden told reporters of Monday’s win, “but I know it’s crunchtime in the sense that we’ve got three starters out and guys have got to pick up the slack. There’s no excuse.”While the outburst was hardly unexpected for Harden, who is now averaging an N.B.A.-leading 34.8 points a game, the Rockets’ personnel situation made it stand out. Paul has been out with an injured hamstring since Dec. 20 and Gordon has been out with an injured knee since Dec. 29. Houston’s injury report then took on what seemed like a crippling blow earlier on Monday when it was revealed that Capela, the team’s center — and the most frequent recipient of Harden’s assists — would be out for four to six weeks as a result of ligament damage in his right thumb.That list of injuries left Harden starting alongside the forgettable quartet of P.J. Tucker, Nene, Austin Rivers and Danuel House Jr. No matter, as Harden joined Kemba Walker as the only players to score more than half of their team’s points in a game this season.Harden was hot from the start, setting a Rockets record with 36 points in the first half, and he succeeded all game with his typical combination of 3-pointers (6 for 15) and free-throws (17 for 18). He also led all players in the game with nine rebounds and committed just five turnovers despite his outrageous level of usage.The last time Harden scored fewer than 30 points was Dec. 11 in Houston’s win over the Portland Trail Blazers, and he just barely missed the feat that night, with 29 points on 10 of 21 shooting. Since then he has averaged 41.3 points a game over the 17 games in which the Rockets, who got off to a poor start this season, have gone 13-4.In the 17 games, Harden has topped 50 points twice and 40 points 10 times. He has also recorded five triple-doubles.While Harden’s performance on Monday broke his tie with Kobe Bryant and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar for the N.B.A.’s longest single-season streak of 30-plus points by a player not named Chamberlain, Harden has a long way to go before catching Wilt.Chamberlain had 30-point streaks, of 20, 25, 31 and 65 games in his career, according to Basketball-Reference.com. The longest one, which came during the 1961-62 season, is likely an unbreakable record, but it comes with an amusing footnote: In Chamberlain’s last game before the streak started, he was held to 28 points in a loss to Bill Russell’s Boston Celtics. When the streak finally ended more than three months later, Chamberlain was held to 26 points — in a loss to Russell’s Celtics.As it currently stands, though, Harden does not appear to have a foil that can be his version of Russell, so there is no telling when this streak will end.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — CJ McCollum likes when games get gritty.The guard scored 33 points as the Portland Trail Blazers took a 2-0 lead in their playoff series against the Oklahoma City Thunder with a 114-94 victory on Tuesday night.Tense at times with plenty of jawing back-and-forth between the teams, the series now heads to Oklahoma City for Game 3 on Friday."I love it, that's what I live for," said McCollum, who missed 10 games late in the regular season because of a knee injury. "Just like playing on the playground."Damian Lillard added 29 points for the third-seeded Blazers, who opened a playoff series with two wins for the first time since the 2014 playoffs, when they beat Houston in six games.Russell Westbrook, who had his ninth career postseason triple-double in Oklahoma City's Game 1 loss, finished with 14 points, nine rebounds and 11 assists. He was pulled with 3:31 with most of his fellow starters after Portland built a 112-91 lead.Westbrook was just 5 of 20 from the field, including 1 for 6 on 3-point attempts. Collectively, the Thunder were 5 of 28 from the perimeter."I've got to play better," Westbrook said. "Tonight, the loss, I'm going to take full responsibility of tonight because the way I played was unacceptable. I'm going to be better."Paul George had 27 points despite lingering questions about his right shoulder, which was covered with kinesiology tape.Portland's victory in Game 1 snapped a 10-game postseason losing streak that included four-game sweeps in the past two seasons — first by the Warriors and then last year by the Pelicans. Lillard had 30 points in the 104-99 win on Sunday.Oklahoma City beat the Blazers in all four meetings during the regular season. The Thunder have been to the playoffs for eight of the last nine seasons, but they haven't gotten past the opening round for the past two.Oklahoma City started with a lot more energy than in Game 1, when it fell behind by 19 points in the first half. When Westbrook hit a 3-pointer in the first quarter, he pounded his chest and the Thunder went on to lead 31-26 at the end of the period.Lillard hit a 3-pointer and was fouled to close the Blazers within 48-43. But the game began to get heated, with Lillard and Westbrook getting into it when Lillard tried to strip the ball. The officials reviewed it for a "hostile act" but concluded there were no fouls on the play. It was chippy for much of the game, and at one point Lillard and Steven Adams stared each other down after Adams set a screen on the All-Star guard."With this team it's physical. It's physical every time we've played them," said Portland's Maurice Harkless, who finished with 14 points. "It's only magnified now — and it's only going to get more physical."Westbrook collected three fouls in the first half and headed early to the bench, as did Portland's Enes Kanter, who was so successful against the Thunder in Game 1. Together the teams had 29 fouls in the opening half and there were 54 for the game.McCollum nailed a 3-pointer off a pass from Lillard at the buzzer to tie the game at 54 going into the break. Then McCollum turned to the crowd and simply nodded."My body feels good," said McCollum, playing in his fourth game since the layoff because of a left knee strain. "Coming off an injury, being able to get into a rhythm and get up and down. Being able to find that rhythm is very important to me."Portland pulled in front on McCollum's jumper and extended it to 69-63 with Lillard's long 3-pointer. Seth Curry had back-to-back 3s to put the Blazers up 85-73 late in the third.The Blazers' hopes for postseason success appeared to take a blow last month when center Jusuf Nurkic was lost for the season with a broken left leg. Nurkic was averaging 15.6 points and 10.4 rebounds when he sustained the gruesome injury during a game against the Brooklyn Nets.Kanter, signed just before the All-Star break after he was waived by the New York Knicks, has started in Nurkic's place. Kanter had 20 points and 18 rebounds in Game 1 but finished with six points and five rebounds on Tuesday.At one point in the first half Kanter got knocked in the hand and X-rays at halftime revealed a contusion. But he said following the game that he'd be fine for Game 3.TIP-INSThunder: Thunder coach Billy Donovan was emphatic before the game: "No injuries, no one out, no game-time decisions." ... It's the first playoff series between the teams since the Thunder moved from Seattle to Oklahoma City.Trail Blazers: Seattle Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson, who just signed a contract extension that makes him the highest paid player in the NFL, was among the fans at the Moda Center, as was Gonzaga coach Mark Few. ... Jake Layman, who did not play in the series opener, came in to start the second quarter.TROUBLE FROM DISTANCEDonovan said he'll take a look at why the Thunder aren't faring well from 3-point range. The team also struggled in Game 1, making just five of 33 attempts."For the most part, I think we got fairly decent looks and we're going to have to take them," Donovan said. "As the ball gets driven downhill, and teams bring help and protect the rim, you just can't force the ball in there and take tough, ill-advised shots. And when the ball gets sprayed back out to the perimeter and guys are open, it's hard to say, 'OK, just drive it right back to the help again and hope they move out of the way.'"UP NEXT: Game 3 is set for Friday night in Oklahoma City.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — After eight straight playoff losses over the past two years, the Portland Trail Blazers finally got a win.Damian Lillard scored 30 points and the third-seeded Blazers opened their series against the No. 6 Oklahoma City Thunder on Sunday with a 104-99 victory."We know how it feels to win again," Lillard said. "Now we can just kind of move on from that and stay focused on this series."Portland was swept by New Orleans last season and the Warriors the year before.Enes Kanter added 20 points and a career playoff-high 18 rebounds for the Blazers, who were making their sixth straight postseason appearance. CJ McCollum added 24 points.Russell Westbrook had 24 points, 10 assists and 10 rebounds for his ninth career postseason triple-double. Paul George, who was a game-time decision because of a sore shoulder, added 26 points and 10 rebounds despite a rough shooting night.Westbrook appeared to hurt his right ankle in the final quarter and grimaced while trying to walk it off. Trainers attended to him on the bench at the next timeout but he returned and his layup closed the gap to 91-87 with just under 4 minutes left.Asked about it afterward, Westbrook said: "We'll see."After trailing by as many as 19 points in the first half, Oklahoma City pulled within as 93-92 on George's 3-pointer with 2:44 left. Lillard answered with a long 3-pointer to keep the Blazers ahead and Al-Farouq Aminu made free throws to extend Portland's lead to 98-92.George made a 3-pointer with 8.2 seconds remaining to get the Thunder within 100-97 but Portland hung on."We knew it was going to be a fight all night long. Even at the beginning of the game when we were up like 17 at one point, I wasn't looking at the scoreboard like, 'Let's put them away." I was like, 'Let's just stay solid, keep competing, keep playing hard,' Lillard said. "And then when they make their runs, and when they get back in the game, (you) just weather those storms."It was the first postseason meeting between the teams since the Thunder moved from Seattle to Oklahoma City.Oklahoma City beat the Blazers in all four meetings this season, including a heated 129-121 overtime victory on March 7.The Thunder have been to the playoffs for eight of the last nine seasons, but they haven't gotten past the opening round for the past two.George was nursing a sore right shoulder and was considered day-to-day for Sunday's game but he started. However he was just 1 of 6 from the floor in the opening quarter. For the game, he made four of 15 3-point attempts."Four days ago I couldn't even lift my shoulder," he said. "Then fast forward to today this is the first day I've even shot the ball, so for me it's just rhythm."George missed the Thunder' regular-season finale Wednesday at Milwaukee because of the nagging injury, which also kept him out of games on Feb. 28, March 2 and March 3.McCollum missed 10 games down the stretch with a left knee strain and had only played in two games since returning. But he started and hit his first two 3-point attempts.The Blazers' hopes for postseason success were dealt a blow last month when center Jusuf Nurkic was lost for the season with a broken left leg. Nurkic was averaging 15.6 points and 10.4 rebounds when he sustained the gruesome injury during a game against the Brooklyn Nets.Kanter, signed just before the All-Star break after he was waived by the New York Knicks, has started in Nurkic's place.The Thunder rallied from a 19-point deficit in the first half to trail by just 54-48 at the break. But they struggled from 3-point range, making just two of 18 attempts.There was simmering tension between the teams. Terrance Ferguson and McCollum had a heated exchange in the second quarter, earning technical fouls. Ferguson earned his third foul and headed to the bench.Westbrook's layup got the Thunder within 64-60, but he collected his fourth foul late in the third and went to the bench. The Blazers went into the fourth quarter with a 76-69 lead.The Thunder's only lead was in the opening quarter."It's a series. First to four. They won the first game," Westbrook said. "Now we make adjustments, come back, play harder next game and try to take it."TIP-INS:Thunder: While the Thunder swept the Blazers 4-0 during the regular season, Portland swept them in four games the season before.Trail Blazers: Blazers coach Terry Stotts concluded his pregame talk with the media by saying. "All right. Masters." The Blazers were 8-8 in the postseason against the SuperSonics. ... Portland had won the last eight regular-season games at the Moda Center. ... Kanter had his third playoff double-double. ... The Blazers haven't made it out of the first round for the past two seasons. Last year as a No. 3 seed Portland got swept by the New Orleans Pelicans.KANTER'S DAYIn just his ninth start with the Blazers, Kanter became just the third player in team history with at least 20 points and 18 rebounds in playoff game. Bill Walton did it three times and LaMarcus Aldridge once."He gave us a lot of toughness inside," Stotts said. "Obviously, his rebounding and scoring. I thought his conditioning was really good. He maintained a high level of play for a long period of time."UP NEXT: Game 2 is Tuesday night at the Moda Center.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The evolution of Giannis Antetokounmpo into a global star has been playing out for six seasons. It manifests in soaring dunks, or blocked shots from the weak side that defy logic, or wraparound passes to an open shooter, or crossover dribbles that leave defenders reeling in his impossibly long-limbed wake.But Pat Connaughton, a reserve guard, did not have the opportunity to witness Antetokounmpo’s feats on a daily basis until last summer, when he signed with the Milwaukee Bucks and joined his new teammates for scrimmages ahead of training camp.“You’d see him do something ridiculous, and I’d be looking around and nobody would be reacting,” Connaughton recalled. “Like, ‘Did you guys not just see that?’”For the players who have been around Antetokounmpo the longest, there may be an element of genius fatigue at work — not that they take him for granted. Malcolm Brogdon, a third-year guard, tried to provide some context for Connaughton at one of those early scrimmages.“You’ll get used to it after a while,” Brogdon told him. “It happens all the time.”Antetokounmpo, 24, has turned the sublime into the routine. But the novelty has not worn off for N.B.A. fans, who have made him appointment viewing this season, and the Bucks have shaped themselves into contenders by following his lead. On top of that, nearly two years after Kobe Bryant, the retired Los Angeles Lakers guard, challenged Antetokounmpo to win the league’s Most Valuable Player Award, he may be on the verge of upending the Eastern Conference to do so.“Everything you see about him or hear about him is how hard he works,” Lakers Coach Luke Walton said, “and how great he wants to be.”The Bucks improved their league-best record to 48-14 after coming from behind to defeat the Lakers on Friday night at Staples Center. Antetokounmpo, who has been dealing with right knee soreness, finished with 16 points and 15 rebounds in the Bucks’ 131-120 win, which qualified as a quiet effort for him. But he had his moments.Early in the fourth quarter, he sized up Mike Muscala, his 6-foot-11 defender, at the top of the perimeter. He took a couple of hard dribbles into the paint, threw his right shoulder into Muscala to knock him off balance, then dunked over him with his left hand.“He draws so much attention,” Bucks Coach Mike Budenholzer said.It was a play that helped ignite the Bucks, who enjoyed an eventful day. After point guard Eric Bledsoe agreed to a four-year, $70 million contract extension in the afternoon, he roasted the Lakers for a season-high 31 points. In addition, Pau Gasol was expected to join the team after securing a buyout from the San Antonio Spurs.“Unbelievable guy,” Antetokounmpo said of Gasol. “He’s been to the finals. He has so much experience. I think he’s definitely going to help us.”The Bucks are readying for a playoff run with Antetokounmpo as their focal point. Entering their game against the Utah Jazz on Saturday night, Antetokounmpo was averaging 26.8 points, 12.6 rebounds and 5.9 assists while shooting 57.9 percent from the field.“When the season started, we knew we had something special — we had a great team,” he said. “But to be honest with you, no, I never thought we were going to have the best record in the N.B.A.“But I think we’ve worked hard for it, we go out there and show up for every game, and we try to win every game.”There is no apt historical comparison for Antetokounmpo because the league has never seen anyone quite like him. He is too long and too strong, too quick and too skilled, a 6-foot-11 power forward who can defend point guards at one end and post up the league’s stoutest centers at the other. As for Antetokounmpo’s unique athleticism, Connaughton considers him to be something of a hybrid of Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors and LeBron James of the Lakers.“He’s got the length of K.D.,” Connaughton said, “but now he’s at the point where he’s got the strength of LeBron — or at least he’s on that trajectory. And that speaks volumes about his work ethic and his desire to be the best that he can be. Because not a lot of guys with that talent work that hard.”Connaughton, whose playing time has fluctuated this season, often goes to the team’s practice facility on off days for extra shooting and conditioning work. Antetokounmpo, Connaughton said, is always there, too. He is a gym rat in the second year of a four-year, $100 million contract. Connaughton joined the Bucks after three seasons with the Portland Trail Blazers, and he said Antetokounmpo plays with the same motor — the same mind-set — as Damian Lillard, the Blazers’ All-Star point guard.“Obviously Dame is a different player, but I think they share an inner desire,” Connaughton said. “It has nothing to do with the outside. It has nothing to do with the media, the attention or the press. Like, they’re in it for their own reasons — the right reasons, in my opinion.”Whenever Budenholzer is asked about it, which is often these days, he makes a compelling case for Antetokounmpo as the N.B.A.’s most valuable player — and he cites his defense as Exhibit A. Antetokounmpo is so dynamic on offense, Budenholzer said, that it tends to overshadow everything else is does. Sure enough, he had three blocked shots against the Lakers.Antetokounmpo is not going to create headlines with bold predictions — after Friday’s win, he repeated familiar mantras about taking it “day by day” and continuing to “work hard” — but the Bucks must be thinking big. All around them, powerhouse teams are struggling. Even the Warriors, the two-time defending champions, have had issues.Few thought the Bucks would be this good this quickly, but everyone was saying the same thing about Antetokounmpo when he entered the league at age 19. Suddenly, the future is now.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Kennard scored 27 points off the bench and the postseason-bound Detroit Pistons closed out their regular season finale by walloping the host New York Knicks 115-89 on Wednesday.The Pistons (41-41) qualified for the Eastern Conference playoffs for just the second time since the 2009-10 season. They were swept by Cleveland in the opening round of the 2015-16 playoffs.Detroit will be the No. 8 seed and face top-seeded Milwaukee in the first round.Kennard's point total was one shy of his career high. Reggie Jackson had 21 points and Andre Drummond supplied 20 points and 18 rebounds for Detroit. Wayne Ellington tossed in 12 points, all on 3-point makes.Heat 113, Nets 94Dwyane Wade ended his storied career with a triple-double of 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists as visiting Miami was dealt a loss to Brooklyn, which clinched sixth place in the Eastern Conference.The Nets honored Wade with a video tribute in pregame introductions by highlighting some of his notable shots against them over the course of a 16-year career while the text on the screen read "Thanks for the Memories."With longtime friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony sitting courtside, Wade recorded his fifth career triple-double in his 1,054th regular-season game since entering the league as the fifth overall pick out of Marquette in 2003.Spurs 105, Mavericks 94LaMarcus Aldridge poured in 34 points and totaled 16 rebounds to help propel San Antonio to a resounding win over visiting Dallas in the regular-season finale for both teams.It was also the final game in the 21-year career of Dallas forward Dirk Nowitzki, who led Dallas with 20 points and pulled down 10 rebounds in 31 minutes of play before leaving the court for the final time with 47 seconds remaining.The win was San Antonio's third straight and -- combined with Oklahoma City's win over Milwaukee -- earned the Spurs the seventh seed in the NBA playoffs, where they will face the Denver Nuggets. Dallas, playing the second game of an emotional home-road back-to-back, had a two-game winning streak snapped and they will miss the postseason for the third straight season.Trail Blazers 136, Kings 131Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a season-high 37 points to lift Portland to a come-from-behind victory over visiting Sacramento.Skal Labissiere added 29 points and 15 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who trailed by as many as 28 points in the first half.Jake Layman, Meyers Leonard and Gary Trent Jr. scored 19 points apiece for Portland (53-29), which gained the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference and will face No. 6 Oklahoma City (49-33) in the first round of the playoffs.Nuggets 99, Timberwolves 95Jamal Murray hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 31.5 seconds left, and host Denver scored the final 15 points of the game to beat Minnesota to earn the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference.Nikola Jokic finished with 29 points and 14 rebounds and Murray scored 17 for Denver. The Nuggets (54-28) will play the San Antonio Spurs in the first round of the playoffs.Andrew Wiggins scored 25 points, Gorgui Dieng had 18 points and 11 rebounds and Cameron Reynolds added 19 points off the bench for the short-handed Timberwolves (36-46).Clippers 143, Jazz 137 (OT)With their respective playoff spots locked, Los Angeles and Utah ended their regular seasons in overtime, where the Clippers won to end a three-game losing streak.Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead the Clippers. Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Lou Williams scored 15 off the bench.Utah rookie Grayson Allen scored a career-high 40 points and Georges Niang scored a career-best 24 off the bench.Thunder 127, Bucks 116Dennis Schroder scored 32 points to help Oklahoma City earn the No. 6 seed in the Western Conference with a win at Milwaukee.The Bucks, who had already sealed the top seed in the Eastern Conference coming into the game, sat three starters -- Giannis Antetokounmpo, Eric Bledsoe and Brook Lopez -- to rest them for the playoffs.Milwaukee (60-22) will start the playoffs against the eighth-seeded Detroit Pistons (41-41). The Thunder (49-33) will open the playoffs against the third-seeded Portland Trail Blazers (53-29).Pacers 135, Hawks 134Edmond Sumner made three free throws with 0.3 seconds remaining to lift Indiana to a road win over Atlanta in the final regular-season game for both teams.Atlanta finished the season with a 29-53 record while Indiana (48-34) heads into the playoffs winners of only four of its last 13 games.The fifth-place Pacers will oppose the fourth-place Boston Celtics (49-33) in the first round of the Eastern Conference postseason.Magic 122, Hornets 114Terrence Ross came off the bench to score a season-high 35 points, and playoff-bound Orlando ended Charlotte's season.Ross scored 19 of his points in the first half, when the Magic led by as many as 13. He finished 12 of 19 from the field and 6 of 10 from 3-point range. Ross' performance overshadowed a 43-point explosion by Charlotte's Kemba Walker in the defeat.The Magic (42-40) remained the No. 7 seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs with the victory, and will face second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs.Grizzlies 132, Warriors 117Memphis dizzied visiting Golden State in the regular-season finale for both teams, parlaying a remarkable 86-point first half into a shocking win.The loss had no bearing on the playoff seeding for the Warriors (57-25). The two-time defending champions enter the postseason as the top seed in the Western Conference and they will open the playoffs against the No. 8 seed, the Los Angeles Clippers, who defeated the Utah Jazz, 143-137, in overtime Wednesday.The win allowed the Grizzlies (33-49) to avoid what would have been a second straight season of at least 50 losses. Rookie Jevon Carter scored 19 of his career-high 32 points in the first half, when the Grizzlies ran off to an 86-68 lead.76ers 125, Bulls 109Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points and Boban Marjanovic added 18 to lift host Philadelphia over Chicago.T.J. McConnell tied his career-high with 18, Zhaire Smith contributed 17 and Greg Monroe had 14 for the Sixers, who completed their regular season with a 51-31 record and the No. 3 playoff seed in the Eastern Conference. The Sixers finished 31-10 at home.The Sixers were extremely short-handed as numerous key players were held out for precautionary reasons as the playoffs are about to begin. All-Star center Joel Embiid, All-Star guard Ben Simmons, guard JJ Redick, forward Jimmy Butler and forward Tobias Harris were all held out.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Stephen Curry was about 25 minutes into a news conference here on Saturday afternoon when a magician who goes by the name Jibrizy sidled up to the dais to do a card trick. Curry, the Golden State Warriors point guard, seemed impressed.“That was nice, big fella,” Curry said. “That was crazy. Y’all see that? Did y’all see that? What’s your name, boss? Jibrizy? Nice to meet you, man. Fire. You’re fire. That’s what’s up.”Lots of weird stuff tends to happen during N.B.A. All-Star weekend, and a cameo by Jibrizy was no exception. But it was also the rare instance when the spotlight left Curry, if only for a moment, in the run-up to the weekend’s flagship game on Sunday.Curry, a six-time All-Star and two-time most valuable player who has already coaxed Golden State to three championships, is used to lots of attention. But he relished his return to Charlotte, where he grew up to become perhaps the greatest shooter of all time — and where he is still revered.“From the time I started playing basketball at 5, right down the street at the recreation center, to now, a lot has happened,” Curry said. “A lot of great things.”Curry was not so great Sunday, but that was not the point. He finished with 17 points, 9 rebounds and 7 assists for Team Giannis in a 178-164 loss to Team LeBron in the All-Star Game, which was a defense-free postscript to a weekend that was a Curry family affair.“Incredibly fond of the family,” Commissioner Adam Silver told reporters. “They seem to be the first family of Charlotte, at least this week.”For much of his trip home, Curry was accompanied by his father, Dell, who spent 10 seasons playing for the Charlotte Hornets, and his mother, Sonya, who drilled a half-court heave after the family helped refurbish a community center. It was probably the family’s splashiest shot of the weekend.“I was surprised,” Stephen Curry said, “because the first four she flung underhand, they didn’t make it to the rim. And then that last one, it just looked good from the moment it left her hand, and I was going, ‘Wham, bam, can of ham! That’s going in!’ ”Curry had less success in Saturday night’s 3-point shootout, where he was joined by his younger brother, Seth, who plays for the Portland Trail Blazers. Stephen Curry made it to the championship round before losing to Joe Harris of the Brooklyn Nets.But Curry had also found time to return to Davidson College, his alma mater, where he clambered into the student section to celebrate an 80-72 victory over St. Joseph’s on Friday night.“The energy in the building was unbelievable,” Curry said. “It’s surreal every time I get to go back there.”The following afternoon, Curry swayed in a sea of reporters (and at least one magician) as he fielded a wide-ranging mix of questions.What did it mean to him to be back in Charlotte? “It’s kind of overwhelming to be honest,” he said. “I’ve got to be like the Energizer bunny.”Could he say something nice to all his fans in the Dominican Republic? “I’ve been there, and I hope to go back,” he said.Did he have a favorite basketball-themed movie? “Probably ‘Love & Basketball,’ ” he said. “I’m a romantic, bro.”During warm-ups for Sunday’s game, Curry mimicked a game of volleyball with Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, posted up a ball boy so that he could take an entry pass from Oklahoma City Thunder point guard Russell Westbrook, made chitchat with bigwigs who were courtside and jacked his share of 30-footers. Most of them went in. All-Star weekend is a circus, but it is still basketball, after all, and Curry has unique skills.He is assembling another spectacular season, even if his work has been overshadowed by fellow All-Stars like James Harden of the Houston Rockets, Paul George of the Thunder and Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo. Curry has been so consistently good for so long now — and his team so dominant — that perhaps some of the novelty has worn off. It is unfair, of course.If his feats feel too familiar, consider his production this season: 28.6 points, 5.2 assists and 5.1 rebounds per game while shooting 48.8 percent from the field and 44.4 percent from 3-point range. He missed 11 games with a groin injury but spent part of that time gluing the Warriors’ locker room back together after Kevin Durant and Draymond Green had a big dust-up.The friction stemmed from Durant’s looming free agency, which has been a steady hum of distraction for the Warriors. But Curry has been a stabilizing force for his team — and even for the league.With a contract that runs through the 2021-22 season, Curry has not had to face pressing questions about his future. He is committed to the Warriors, and the Warriors appear committed to him. He is a throwback in an era dominated by player movement, the current face of which is Anthony Davis, the All-Star center who recently requested a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans. So many other stars face uncertain summers, too: Durant, Kyrie Irving and Kawhi Leonard among them.But Curry has his niche in Northern California, even if his roots are in North Carolina. After Sunday’s game, he described trying to persuade his father to move to the Bay Area, where Curry has settled in with his wife, Ayesha, and their three children.Dell Curry, who is a color commentator for the Hornets, always says no.“This is where home is for him,” Stephen Curry said.And for Stephen Curry, the whereabouts of his father seem to be the only player movements on his mind. Curry said he was unconcerned with free agency this summer and the potential departures of his teammates.“That’s a part of the business,” Curry said. “But the great teams, the great players, they stay in the moment and they understand what’s in front of them.”And so, after taking a weekend to dip into his past, Curry returned to looking ahead. The journey goes on.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alex WongNathaniel Butler has been an N.B.A. senior photographer since 1984. Those were the days of shooting on film and developing photos in hotel rooms after games. Today, players text Butler as they arrive at the arena so he can be in position to capture a perfect arena entrance shot for them to post on Instagram.The job isn’t what it used to be.When Andrew D. Bernstein became an official N.B.A. photographer in 1986, he was continually thwarted in his attempts to get his camera into in-game huddles to capture the interactions between players and coaches. Pat Riley, who was the coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, made sure to obscure all viewpoints.Halfway through the season, Riley asked Bernstein why he wanted to be in the huddle. People want to see what’s happening on the inside, Bernstein told Riley, who agreed to give Bernstein a chance. If you screw up, Riley said, you are never coming back.More than three decades later, Bernstein is still photographing N.B.A. players, huddles and pretty much whatever he pleases as the league’s longest tenured senior photographer.Photographers have long played a critical role in shaping narratives in a league defined by faces and moments. The most iconic posters are the finished works of the photographers who position themselves along the baseline each game, often contorting their bodies and forgetting about personal comfort to get closer and take countless snaps, in hopes of capturing a masterpiece.In today’s N.B.A., they allow players to use those photographs as building blocks for their social media profiles. They have adapted to an ever-changing digital world that has presented new opportunities and a whole new set of challenges.On game day, Butler uses a combination of tethered remotes and custom phone apps to operate any number of cameras in an arena.He sends photographs to a team of editors in Secaucus, N.J., with the press of a button. In seconds, they can be published on the league’s official social media feeds and reach millions of people around the world.Despite the technological advances, shooting an N.B.A. game can be more difficult than one would think. “A basketball game is a complex situation,” said Bruce Ely, the lead photographer of the Portland Trail Blazers. “There are a lot of moving parts.”Like a fan’s arms waving across the frame just as Damian Lillard makes a 3-pointer. Or the leg of another player sneaking into the edge of the image, ruining a portrait. Another time, it might be a referee walking into a perfect shot.Despite the challenges, some N.B.A. photographers do not consider it their most difficult assignment. Nelson Campana, who photographs the Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team, regularly shoots weddings as well. The pressure of game night is nothing compared with the responsibility of chronicling a couple’s special day.“You have one night to make it right,” Campana said. “There’s a list of things you need to get, and you don’t get another chance. At a basketball game, you’re just hoping things happen.”Some nights, there is too much happening at the same time. As the Oklahoma City Thunder eliminated the San Antonio Spurs in the 2016 playoffs, Butler had to make a split-second decision about what to photograph at the buzzer. He focused on Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook embracing, and then got a shot of Durant with Tim Duncan. He stayed with Durant afterward, but that meant missing a chance to capture Duncan walking off an N.B.A. court for the final time.“Ideally,” Butler said, “I would like to be in two places at one time.”While some players enjoy being on the other side of these photographers’ lenses, others say it is an adjustment. Aaron Gordon of the Orlando Magic first remembers being in front of a camera as a high schooler being interviewed after winning a basketball tournament.“You have to live in a way where you’re O.K. with being seen,” Gordon said. “You’re always being watched these days.”Because so many photos are being taken, players have to accept that they can control only so much of what is shared online.“You want to nitpick every single picture,” said John Collins, a second-year forward with the Atlanta Hawks. “But it just can’t work that way. You can’t read everything about yourself and see every photo of yourself.”To take more control over their visual narratives on social media, players are working with photographers to shoot them outside basketball arenas.Cassy Athena is a professional photographer who has earned the trust of players around the league. Last season, at All-Star Weekend in Los Angeles, Athena followed Stephen Curry and his wife, Ayesha, for the entire weekend. She was also invited by Indiana Pacers guard Victor Oladipo to shoot him at New York Fashion Week in 2018.Athena says it takes time to convince certain players of the value of her photographs.“It’s not so much they don’t understand the importance of the moment,” she said. “It’s convincing them why they should share it with the world. When it clicks, you get guys who might not be the best N.B.A. player, but they use this” — meaning Instagram and professional photos — “to build their own brand and further their careers.”Older, more established players worry less about their online persona but more about how the images carry a nostalgic value as their careers wind down.“What photographers do may seem minute,” said Vince Carter, 42, who just ended his 21st season in the league. “But I’ve seen so many shots of the best moments of my career, and in some ways, they’ve helped me remember those moments.”Many of these iconic images can now be seen on the Instagram pages of the photographers themselves. Bernstein said he was the last guy dragged kicking and screaming into the social media era. He now enjoys posting classic pictures for Throwback Thursday.Butler adds watermarks to the photographs he posts on his feed because other accounts and publications will often publish them without giving him credit. But he recognizes the value of being online. “It opens you up to a whole other audience,” Butler said.The rise of social media accounts means there are now more photographers at N.B.A. games. Butler prefers to use a camera lens that does not require him to be right in the face of players to capture them up close. In the modern era, he has noticed a lot of camera phones being shoved into players’ faces.“There’s an etiquette that doesn’t exist anymore,” Butler said. “Not just in sports, but in society.”Even though photographers want to capture every moment, some also realize that there are boundaries. A few months ago, Kyrie Irving and Durant had a private conversation at All-Star Weekend in Charlotte, N.C., which was captured on film. It was circulated online, and many believed the two were discussing their heavily rumored plans to join the Knicks together this summer.“If I was a player, that would bother me,” Butler said. “You don’t have to document every second of their existence.”Bernstein had a similar decision to make more than 30 years ago, during the 1988 N.B.A. finals, when he walked through the Lakers’ locker room after a loss and found Magic Johnson and Michael Cooper with their uniforms on, dejected as the showers were running around them.It was a one-of-a-kind moment, but Bernstein opted against taking the photograph.“That was their time,” Bernstein said. “That didn’t need to be documented. I have that picture in my mind, and that’s enough.”An earlier version of this article described Nelson Campana’s job incorrectly. He photographs the Toronto Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team; he is not the team photographer.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — On Thursday morning, in the middle of a six-game road trip that had produced its share of duds, Knicks Coach David Fizdale started practice by gathering his players for an announcement: Kevin Knox, a first-year forward, had been named the N.B.A.’s Eastern Conference rookie of the month for December.The news was well received by Knox’s teammates. Emmanuel Mudiay and Mario Hezonja rubbed Knox’s head as Frank Ntilikina made a halfhearted attempt to jump on his back. Knox appeared genuinely surprised — and pleased. The award seemed to validate his hard work while offering the Knicks (10-29) a reprieve from a season that was long ago sacrificed to the twin gods of player development and the draft lottery.Such sacrifices, of course, have become a franchise specialty.“I still have a lot of work to do,” Knox said.And so do the Knicks, who arrived to face the Los Angeles Lakers (21-18) at Staples Center on Friday night having lost eight straight.But then, another flicker of joy: The Knicks left with a 119-112 victory that they described as cathartic, even if the Lakers were without LeBron James, Kyle Kuzma and Rajon Rondo, all sidelined with injuries.At this point, the Knicks care little for such technicalities. James L. Dolan, the team owner, was in town for the game and visited the locker room afterward to congratulate the team.“When we win, we celebrate like it’s the Super Bowl,” Fizdale said. “Why not?”The Knicks were right to savor the win: Who knows when the next one will come? They still need to visit the Portland Trail Blazers and the Golden State Warriors before returning to New York on Friday, and one game will neither change the trajectory of their season nor mask their daily challenges.But it was important in its own way.“We’ll try to run with the momentum,” Tim Hardaway Jr. said.The Knicks have an odd roster made up of veterans on expiring contracts and inexperienced players who are still learning the business of pro basketball. And that mix, which is almost a 50-50 split, has caused some problems, Fizdale said, not among players in the locker room — “They like each other,” he said — but in terms of the team’s on-court chemistry.Before the Knicks arrived in Los Angeles, the first half of their road trip featured a 16-point loss to the Milwaukee Bucks, a 32-point loss to the Utah Jazz and a 7-point loss to the Denver Nuggets.“We are so young and we have so many guys in contract years fighting for their lives that I’ve got to get this group to move the ball,” Fizdale said. “The numbers say that when we pass the ball, we win. And when we don’t pass, we lose.”He went on to acknowledge the inevitable “friction” between players who are vying for their next deals (and may feel more urgency to produce) and those who have the luxury of being included in the team’s long-term plan. For the most part, Fizdale has been favoring the young players with promise.“That’s just part of this league, and that’s the juggling act that I have to handle,” Fizdale said. “Am I always going to be right? No. But will I always be upfront and honest about where we are and what we’re doing? Yes.”Enes Kanter, one of the aforementioned veterans who will be a free agent this summer, has gone public with his displeasure over his diminished role. Kanter got an opportunity off the bench against the Lakers and delivered, finishing with 16 points and 15 rebounds.“I don’t want no free money,” Kanter said. “This organization pays me money to go out and play as hard as I can and just fight. So I’m going to give my everything.”Kanter, though, is not the only one to voice frustration. Hardaway, who figures to be a part of the team’s future, has alluded to the toll of losing, to the thankless process of a perpetual rebuild. He does not subscribe to the idea that the Knicks should be tanking games to increase their odds of getting the top pick in the draft lottery.“I’m a competitor,” Hardaway said. “None of us got here by losing ballgames for our respective ball clubs when we were in college or in high school. Everybody was winners. Everybody wanted to win. Just to be in this situation is tough, but it builds character.”One of the bright spots has been the improved play of Knox, who averaged 17.1 points and 6 rebounds while shooting 38.4 percent from 3-point range during December.Against the Lakers, Knox made back-to-back 3-pointers early in the first quarter, then sliced through the lane for a dunk and a 17-point lead. The game was barely six minutes old. James, in a dark blazer, watched with a dour expression from behind the home bench. (He is expected to miss at least another week because of a groin injury.) The Knicks, after giving up their lead, held on late, thanks to some solid defense.Knox finished with 14 points in 37 minutes, which is the sort of workload to which he is becoming accustomed.“We talked about building him into a premier N.B.A. player who can play both ends of the floor,” Fizdale said, “and we’re trying to give him a taste of what that entails. It’s not necessarily the minutes you play, but what you’re doing with those minutes from an effort standpoint, from a competitive standpoint: How many calories are you burning?”For one night, the burn was worth it. The Knicks can only hope it is a sign of things to come.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyBUIES CREEK, N.C. — With three seconds left in the first half last Wednesday night, Campbell point guard Chris Clemons was fouled on a layup. He banged the floor in frustration as the ball rimmed out, then rose and hit both free throws. Someone in the sparsely populated stands yelled, “Congratulations, Chris!” Given the size of the crowd, it’s almost certain Clemons heard him.The second free throw was Clemons’s 22nd point of the night, and the 2,952nd of his four-season career at Campbell, a private university about an hour’s drive south of Raleigh, N.C., his hometown. It also meant Clemons, a senior, had entered the top 10 of the men’s Division I college basketball career scoring list, passing the former Kansas star Danny Manning. By the end of the game, when Clemons had finished off a season-high 48-point effort, he had passed Oscar Robertson, too.“It’s kind of a gift and a curse that you’re not really able to enjoy the moment — or that I chose not to, rather,” Clemons said. “I do understand the significance of the events.”History is being made in college basketball this season, but not all of it is being made for teams that are likely bound for the Final Four or by players who are projected to be selected early in the next N.B.A. draft.With 3,006 career points at Campbell, Clemons is two behind Hersey Hawkins, the former Bradley player, for eighth all time, heading into Thursday’s game with High Point. At South Dakota State, another senior, Mike Daum, is poised to break into the top 10 by season’s end; with 2,943 points, he could pass Manning in the Jackrabbits’ game on Thursday against Fort Wayne.It is an unignorable fact that most of the players still ahead of Clemons and Daum on the career scoring list are not household names, either. After Hawkins, for instance, Clemons could pass Keydren Clark, who played for St. Peter’s, in Jersey City; Harry Kelly of Texas Southern, in Houston; and perhaps even Alphonso Ford of Mississippi Valley State, who holds fourth place with 3,165 points. (First place, by a country mile, with 3,667 points, is the Louisiana State legend Pete Maravich, even though he played only three seasons.)“I recognize that a lot of people on that list, who scored a lot of points in college, didn’t go on to have successful N.B.A. careers,” said Hawkins, who did have a successful N.B.A. career and now works for the Portland Trail Blazers.Freeman Williams — who is second, and the scorer of 3,249 points for Portland State — acknowledged that his college years had been his glory days. “I got most of my attention as a basketball player back then,” he said.Clemons and Daum fit in the same category. Daum is a two-time (and probable three-time) Summit League player of the year. Clemons is leading all Division I players in scoring this season, averaging nearly 30 points a game. Although both are likely to get opportunities to shine during the N.B.A.’s summer league or on its development league rosters, said Fran Fraschilla, the former coach and ESPN draft analyst, the 6-foot 9-inch Daum is at best a late-second-round draft pick. Clemons, who is listed at 5-9, is unlikely to be drafted at all.The relative anonymity of college basketball’s leading career scorers appears to be a feature, not a bug. If you are scoring so many points for so much time, you most likely are not doing so at college basketball’s heights.“If Mike Daum or Chris Clemons had gone to play in the Big Ten or the A.C.C.,” Fraschilla said last week, referring to the Atlantic Coast Conference, “they wouldn’t be on the verge of scoring 3,000 points.”He added, “As good players as they are, they would be on teams with other really talented players, as opposed to going to a school like S.D.S.U. or Campbell, where virtually from Day 1 their talent was such that they were the dominant player not only on their team but in their league.”And had they dominated as they have in a bigger league, they probably wouldn’t be seniors; the best college basketball players are around for only one or two seasons.“Let’s not kid ourselves,” said Lionel Simmons, who is third with 3,217 career points for La Salle. “Some of these players, if they didn’t come out early, they could have scored 3,000.”But even when top talents played for three or four college seasons, they did so for top teams whose other talented players lowered the individual demands on them. Superlative college players like U.C.L.A.’s Lew Alcindor (who later changed his name to Kareem Abdul-Jabbar) and Georgetown’s Patrick Ewing had the kinds of supporting casts that come with championship teams.The most prominent name in the top 20, after Robertson, is Larry Bird, who played most of his college career at Indiana State, a team that he led to the Final Four, but one that needed him to average 30 points a game. But a place on the list can still be a point of pride years later.Hawkins acknowledged that he kept tabs on developments in the career scoring top 10. In 2014, a Blazers scout was at the Creighton game in which Doug McDermott, now of the Indiana Pacers, passed Hawkins. “He was texting me, ‘Six points away,’ ‘Two points away,’” Hawkins said. “He thought it was funny. I was sitting at dinner getting texted every three minutes.”Last week, Clemons deflected postgame questions about passing Manning and Robertson, saying he was focused on this season, in which the Fighting Camels (15-11) are third in the Big South. Asked whether he had kept the game ball, he laughed; of course he had not.“After it’s all said and done, I’ll definitely go back and look, reminisce on the years I’ve had here, kind of be amazed at myself, know what I was able to accomplish,” Clemons said.Like Clemons, Daum emphasized in a telephone interview that he has been putting his team first. Still, he said, he could not help noticing recently when he passed Bird, as well as Duke’s J. J. Redick and North Carolina’s Tyler Hansbrough, two stars from the last decade whom Daum had grown up watching.“I feel like I’m going to look back on it” — his eventual scoring total — “maybe when I’m older, and be like, ‘See how cool it was to be in that position,’” Daum said.“For me personally,” he added, “it’s just getting ready for the next thing.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Hours after Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Los Angeles Lakers’ president of basketball operations, and mere minutes after LeBron James’s first season as the franchise cornerstone ended with a buzzer-beating loss, James left Staples Center on Tuesday night without speaking to reporters, trailed only by security officers and questions about the team’s future.It was not the season anyone envisioned for the Lakers, who had upended the N.B.A. by signing James last summer with the hype and expectation of returning the franchise to its glory years. One of the most storied teams in the league, the Lakers have not won a championship in nine years, and Los Angeles is frustrated, hungry and impatient.Instead, the team collected nearly as many injuries as losses. James, who will miss the N.B.A. playoffs beginning Saturday for the first time in 14 years, watched the final six games of the season from the bench as the team looked to preserve him for next season. His next buzzy stop is a studio lot as the star of “Space Jam 2,” which he has said is set to begin filming this summer.For the Lakers (37-45), all the drama was off the court, right up to the end, with Johnson’s abrupt announcement so out-of-the-blue that he had not even told his boss, the team owner Jeanie Buss, before wading into a gaggle of reporters.[Here is a look at Magic Johnson’s biggest moments as team president.]On Wednesday morning, Johnson, 59, wrote on Twitter that he considers himself a “Laker for life.”He announced in 1991 that he was H.I.V. positive but said Tuesday that he was in good health and it was not a factor in his decision.Johnson had sealed a $154 million, four-year deal for James — two greats fulfilling their needs: Johnson to restore luster to a glamorous team; James to close out his career as a Laker and develop his business and entertainment interests centered on Hollywood.And now they both left Staples Center with a losing record and a team in chaos.In some ways, it was the perfect finale to a season that trafficked in dysfunction.So there was the coach, Luke Walton, saying what losing coaches always say: essentially, wait until next year. His job may have been saved when Johnson quit, but he would not talk about that.“We have a lot of time to work and get better,” Walton said late Tuesday after the Lakers’ loss to the Portland Trail Blazers. “Let’s organize and prioritize what we need to do so we can give ourselves a better chance next season.”It was a wasted season for everyone involved, and James is as polarizing as ever, even in Los Angeles, where as much as fans banked on him, they also retained a degree of skepticism that this was all real.Jonas Never, a prominent Los Angeles-based street artist, found that out the hard way.“Honestly,” Never said in a telephone interview, “Lakers fans are the trickiest.”Last July, he had talked a restaurant owner in Venice Beach into allowing him to paint a mural of James in a Lakers jersey to commemorate his arrival: 75 cans of spray paint in 12 hours for the “King of L.A.”It did not take long for the mural to be vandalized — not just once, but twice in a span of four days. The first time, it was salvageable. Someone had defaced the wall with the words “We Don’t Want You” and “No King,” along with “3-6,” a reference to James’s losing record in the N.B.A. finals. But Never was able to restore the mural. (“A two-minute fix,” he said.)The second time, someone splashed yellow paint all over James’s face, and Never had no choice but to paint over it.“If it had been a car, it would have been totaled,” he said.To be fair, most fans were excited about James. The news media coverage was breathless. And perhaps no member of the ticket-paying public had invested more in LeBron-to-L.A. than Jacob Emrani, a personal injury lawyer from Beverly Hills, Calif., who had purchased space for 40 James-themed billboards in the run-up to free agency.“I definitely didn’t think it was going to be something where we missed the playoffs or thought, ‘What the hell is happening here?’ ” Emrani said in an interview. “I’m disappointed in the breaks we got, but I’m not necessarily disappointed in LeBron. We were in fourth place when he went down.”Emrani was referring to what may have been the season’s turning point: the Lakers’ ill-fated Christmas Day game against the Golden State Warriors, which James himself cited in a recent interview with Spectrum SportsNet, the Lakers’ broadcast partner. The Lakers were playing solid basketball at the time — in fact, they clobbered the Warriors to improve their record to 20-14 — but James injured his groin in the third quarter and wound up missing the next 17 games. The Lakers went into a tailspin without him.“Disappointed in my body,” James told Spectrum SportsNet, adding: “Because I knew exactly where we were at that point. And we just were never able to get back from that.”Once James returned, the team’s front office unsuccessfully tried to engineer a trade for another big star, the New Orleans Pelicans’ Anthony Davis — this, after James had told ESPN that it would be “amazing” to play alongside Davis.The plan appeared to be to essentially trade away the rest of the team. The fallout was clear: Whatever fragile bonds that remained in the home locker room at Staples Center seemed to fray at the seams.For many fans, it was impossible to dissociate James from the failed trade — James and Davis share an agent, Rich Paul — and much of the mess that followed.“Nearly everyone on the roster was involved in those trade rumors,” Never said. “How can you really feel wanted if you think you’re going to be packing your locker the next day?”As the losses mounted, so did the criticisms of James: that he appeared detached from his teammates, that basketball was secondary to his growing interest in his entertainment company, that his body was finally breaking down after so many years of athletic genius, that he was no longer capable of carrying a team to a title.But in the 55 games that James did play this season, he was pretty good. He averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists a game while shooting 51 percent from the field. Besides, a long summer may benefit him after so many extended playoff runs.“The only thing that was hard was that he got hurt,” Walton said late Tuesday night. “It takes time to build a relationship with somebody. But as our relationship grew and I got to see what it was like coaching him, it was great. And I believe if we could have stayed healthy, we would have had a very successful season. He’s an incredible player.”For his part, James told Spectrum SportsNet that he wanted to use the summer to get his body back to “120 percent” ahead of training camp — even as he moonlights on the set of “Space Jam 2.” He has been adamant that his work in entertainment will not interfere with his work on the basketball court.The question is whether one bad season will become two. So much hinges on the summer as the Lakers look to add another star to their roster. (Emrani said he had plans for more billboards, though he declined to say which top-tier free agents he would target.) James has said that he will be as involved in the team’s recruiting efforts as possible.“I’m looking forward to seeing who jumps in the car with me and wants to take this ride to the top,” James said in his interview with Spectrum SportsNet. “I know what I bring to the game. I know my commitment to the game. I’ve never cheated the game, and throughout my career, it’s always given back to me.”Back in Venice Beach, Never painted a new mural during the middle of the N.F.L. season, replacing LeBron James with Derwin James, a safety for the Los Angeles Chargers. The mural has been up for months, Never said, and no one has touched it.An earlier version of this article misstated when LeBron James injured his groin during a game against the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day. It was in the third quarter, not the first half.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaNEW ORLEANS — The New Orleans Pelicans have scuffled along for years as one of the N.B.A.’s worker-bee franchises, a respectable team but not one that has vied for championships. They lose as often as they win and play their home games in an arena called the Smoothie King Center, where a big-beaked mascot named Pierre roams the crowd.But in recent seasons, the team has employed someone even more special: Anthony Davis, a gifted center and one of the best players in the league. Davis has a pterodactyl-length wingspan and a unibrow, which has become as much a part of his persona as his skyscraping dunks. Fans know him as “The Brow,” as if he were a superhero who draws strength from his facial hair.New Orleans used to love him for it — until two weeks ago, when he shook the league and asked the Pelicans to trade him. The Pelicans, in return, made a bold move of their own: They refused to let him go, at least not yet.Now Davis and New Orleans are stuck together in basketball purgatory — “It definitely is different,” said Jrue Holiday, the team’s starting point guard — and the city’s long-suffering sports fans can only wonder: What do we do now?“It’s not a new thing that guys demand to be traded,” Alvin Gentry, the Pelicans coach, said in an interview, “but I thought the timing of it kind of put everybody in a tough situation.”It has been a soul-crushing few weeks for sports fans here. They absorbed a major blow last month when the New Orleans Saints, who are as much a tent revival as football team, lost to the Los Angeles Rams in the N.F.L. playoffs after a missed call by the referees, which may have cost the Saints a trip to the Super Bowl.A week later, Davis’s agent, Rich Paul, announced publicly that Davis wanted out of New Orleans and would not sign a contract extension.“Now that he’s going to leave, I’m excited to see what we can get for him,” said Ryan Bergeron, a 22-year-old legal assistant from New Orleans who is a regular at Pelicans games. Like many fans, Bergeron owns one of Davis’s replica jerseys — which he plans to keep in the back of his closet.“I think we’ll be better off without him,” Bergeron said.Not so long ago, Davis was throwing beads from a float as an honorary grand marshal at a Mardi Gras parade. But the city’s feelings toward him have curdled like week-old étouffée.On Friday night, when Davis played in his first home game for the Pelicans since his trade request, images of him were cut from a highlight package that played on the arena’s oversize video screens. The crowd showered him with boos that drowned out scattered cheers. As if to amplify his value while sticking it to those who expressed their displeasure, Davis collected 32 points and 9 rebounds.“It’s life, man,” Davis said of his frosty reception. “Some people aren’t going to like you.”New Orleans has dealt with its share of hardwood hardship. Franchises have come and gone, along with star players. The New Orleans Buccaneers were a charter member of the American Basketball Association from 1967 to 1970, but then relocated to Memphis. The New Orleans Jazz, founded as an N.B.A. expansion franchise in 1974, had a similarly abbreviated run before decamping for Utah in 1979.The N.B.A. returned to New Orleans in 2002 — back when the team was known as the Hornets — and eventually found a franchise star in point guard Chris Paul, who led the team to three playoff appearances before he, too, told management before the start of the 2011-12 season that he would not sign a contract extension. New Orleans traded him to the Los Angeles Clippers, then finished with the worst record in the Western Conference.But from the rubble of player discontent sprang fresh life in 2012: Tom Benson, then the owner of the Saints, bought the franchise, and the team, soon to be rebranded as the Pelicans, secured the top pick in the draft. (After Benson died last year, the ownership of both franchises was transferred to his wife, Gayle.) New Orleans used that pick on Davis, a freshman center who had just led Kentucky to an N.C.A.A. championship.Now in his seventh season, Davis is a six-time All-Star who was averaging 29 points and 13.3 rebounds entering Monday. But he has been prone to injury, and he has never led the Pelicans on a deep playoff run. The organization has made missteps — Exhibit A: re-signing Omer Asik, a Turkish forward, to a $58 million deal in 2015 — but that does not make them unique among N.B.A. teams; they are trying to compete in one of the league’s smallest markets when stars are generally gravitating toward flashier and more well-established franchises.Last season, the Pelicans were playing well behind Davis and DeMarcus Cousins, a perennial All-Star whom the team had acquired through a trade in 2017. But Cousins tore his Achilles’ tendon and missed the playoffs. Without him, the Pelicans still swept the Portland Trail Blazers in their first-round series before losing to the Golden State Warriors in the conference semifinals.Still another problem was brewing for the Pelicans. In September, Davis changed agents and hired Paul, who is known for his close relationship with LeBron James, the Los Angeles Lakers’ star forward.Paul’s tactics with the Pelicans in recent weeks in pursuit of a trade for Davis were unconventional. Tom Penn, a former executive with the Trail Blazers and an analyst for NBA TV, said in a telephone interview that most agents try to work with team executives behind the scenes. Paul, on the other hand, “threw a Molotov cocktail in the middle of the room,” Penn said.It became a public spectacle, and the Pelicans responded by releasing a statement in which they said they would do a deal “on our own terms and our own timeline.” Sure enough, they rebuffed the Lakers — one of Davis’s preferred trade destinations — in their attempts to pry Davis loose.Once Thursday’s trade deadline passed, the Pelicans landed a final jab by tweeting an emoji of an hourglass that had run out.Aside from avoiding the public-relations pitfalls of being stuck with a star who no longer wants to be there, the Pelicans had little incentive to make a deal ahead of the trade deadline. More teams will be better positioned to make offers for Davis in the off-season, and the Pelicans’ haul in exchange for him could be huge.New Orleans also showed some pluck. At a time when some players are seizing greater power to determine the arc of their careers, the Pelicans decided that they would trade Davis when they are ready.Now, with Davis tethered to them for the remainder of the season — he is a lottery ticket they will wait to cash — the Pelicans are searching for a way forward.“What we’re trying to do is get back to normal,” said Gentry, the team’s coach, “and what our new normal is — we haven’t quite figured it out yet.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy David Waldstein and Kelly WhitesideAnother wretched Knicks season has ended, but from its ashes a justifiable optimism is taking root. The Knicks have the money to add two star players this summer, and there is a growing buzz in the N.B.A. that they could acquire Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors and Kyrie Irving of the Boston Celtics, who can be free agents.With one of the top picks in the N.B.A. draft, optimism turns to giddiness. Could next season’s Knicks feature not only Durant and Irving but also Zion Williamson, Duke’s freshman sensation? Or will the Knicks trade their lottery pick for a standout like Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans?Such big names potentially brighten their future, but there’s another name that could make a difference: James L. Dolan.And so it must be asked: Will Dolan, the unpredictable and imperious owner of the team, find a way to mess it all up?Based on his two-decade history as owner, there is reason to wonder. For the second time in five years, the Knicks won only 17 games, a franchise low. This was also the sixth consecutive year the Knicks failed to make the playoffs, and the 12th time in the last 15 years. It’s a staggering level of impotence for a team that spends as much money as it does and has all the inherent advantages of playing in New York City at Madison Square Garden.That enduring failure, combined with Dolan’s public mistreatment of some fans, has led to a growing anger and skepticism in a disaffected, if dedicated, fan base.Watching the team spin its wheels seems part of the appeal or burden: The Knicks have committed more than $800 million in payroll over the last decade — not to mention millions more spent on a revolving door of high-profile executives — and they spend over the league salary cap each year as a matter of course. They also have averaged no fewer than 19,000 fans a game, no matter how bad they were.There are always appealing visiting teams to watch, and some seasons have started strong only to fizzle. But with such a crucial summer on the horizon, the thinking among fans and Knicks observers goes, perhaps not even Dolan can mess up this opportunity to forge a proven winner.“I wish he had a longer fuse when it comes to the fans,” said David Stern, the commissioner of the N.B.A. from 1984 to 2014. “There are some overreactions, but it will have nothing to do with free agency or how the team is run. That all falls on Steve Mills and Scott Perry. Him having a short fuse at times will have zero bearing on player signings.”Mills, the team president, has worked with Dolan on and off over the last two decades, and Perry is the general manager. They are the latest group that Dolan has entrusted to run the basketball side of the organization. (Others have included Isiah Thomas, Larry Brown, Donnie Walsh, Mike D’Antoni and Phil Jackson — all highly compensated and most of them successful elsewhere but unable to succeed under Dolan.)Dolan may be seen as the odious, impulsive and vengeful tyrant of the Garden, but Stern said Dolan desperately wanted a championship squad.“Jim has been on a crusade to get the best basketball people around him,” Stern said. “That’s what he thought he had with Phil and Isiah and Donnie, and what he thinks he has now with Steve and Scott.”But even with some of those well-respected men, Dolan was known to interfere in basketball decisions, particularly Walsh’s. Dolan has vowed to cease the meddling, and Mills says he has kept his word.“I keep him informed, but he does not get involved in what we do,” Mills said in a telephone interview last week.Dolan, however, did dictate to Mills which news outlets could be involved in some of Mills’s own news conferences. On two occasions this season, The Daily News, which Dolan and Madison Square Garden accused of being biased against them, was not invited, meaning Mills did not have total authority over everything to do with the Knicks.“Jim has strong opinions about the media,” Mills said, “and how he has been covered by the media and how we’ve been covered by the media. Really, my focus and what I have complete control over, how we build this basketball team — that’s what I lock into.”Dolan declined to be interviewed for this article.Several other executives who have worked closely with Dolan over the years but did not want to be named in order to speak candidly described a complex man layered with contradictory impulses and character traits.He can be irrational but also is fiercely loyal to certain people. He can be socially awkward and quite charitable but also unleash a volcanic temper on employees.He is said to worship his father, Charles, 92, the founder of Cablevision. But while Charles Dolan would carry lists of employees’ names in his pocket to help greet them and ask them about their lives, James Dolan is just as likely to walk past employees with barely a hello, associates said, and berate others in meetings. Many employees at the Garden simply try to keep their distance.Seth Abraham was the chief executive of Madison Square Garden for almost five years, until 2004, when Dolan was directly in charge of the Knicks, the Rangers and the Liberty. The two worked together closely.“He’s got the right mind-set,” Abraham said. “The issue is that he’s a zealot and his passion sometimes overwhelms him and the people who work for him. His passion is hot.”Certainly, some fans and charities have benefited from his generosity, while others have felt the sting of his wrath.Most notably, Dolan had security guards wrestle Charles Oakley, a former Knick and fan favorite, out of the building in 2017, an unpleasant scene that unfolded in front of thousands. And last month he had guards detain and then bar another fan from the building who had called out to him, “Sell the team!”Although Dolan may eventually sell the Knicks and the Rangers (he sold the Liberty), few think he will do so any time soon, especially when the fortunes of the team could be close to changing significantly. The Knicks are valued at $4 billion, the highest in the league, according to Forbes magazine.“Fans probably don’t like him because of the team’s record and because he didn’t engage much with them,” said Enes Kanter, the center who played parts of two seasons with the Knicks until he was released in February and is now on the Portland Trail Blazers, who are in the playoffs. “But if they knew him more directly they would probably like him more.”Kanter said the fans had the right to feel the way they did because New York City is a great city, but its basketball team has struggled historically. “They deserve a good team,” he added.They have not had one — a real good one — in 20 years, and the anger mounts. In fact, fear of a growing dissatisfaction among fans led to the Garden quietly limiting the amount of beer and alcohol that could be purchased at games late this season, perhaps a prudent decision considering the level of frustration in a fan base with little to cheer.Prudent decisions have not always been the norm with the Knicks. This is the organization that Stern once said was “not a model of intelligent management.” That comment came a dozen years ago, toward the end of an ugly time in the history of the organization, when a former Garden executive, Anucha Browne Sanders, sued the Knicks and Thomas for sexual harassment, and won in court.There is also a perception among fans and people in the league that prospective players want no part of the bungling Knicks because the team is mismanaged to a point where winning is nearly impossible. In 2015, the Knicks made offers to LaMarcus Aldridge, Greg Monroe and DeAndre Jordan, who was coming off two very productive seasons at the time, and all three signed elsewhere. The next year, the Knicks could not even get a meeting with Durant.Now the hope is that Durant has changed his mind, perhaps convinced that he and Irving or another top free agent could be the ones to lead the Knicks to their first title since 1973. But with the Dolan wild card, hungry Knicks fans cannot be sure.“He has cultivated an environment where N.B.A. guys don’t want to play there,” said Gary Horn, 57, a lifelong Knicks fan and screenwriter who grew up in New York and now lives in California. “But his grand flaw is that he has deputized people who don’t know how to draft young players.”A few years ago at the Chicago predraft camp, Mills said, players and their agents told him that they did not want to join the Knicks but said the reason was more about the Knicks’ strategy under the former executive Phil Jackson.“It was the organization, style of play, however you want to talk about it,” Mills said.Mills added that he and Perry were working hard to change the perception of the Knicks and that David Fizdale, the coach, was a draw for both players and fans by dint of his magnetic personality.Some fans are ready to believe the circumstances have aligned for a superteam.“If Durant thinks playing for the Knicks is what’s best for his business and branding goals,” Jonathan Macri, a fan and founder of the Knicks Film School, a website dedicated to the team, said, “Dolan’s reputation as an unpleasant, impulsive individual isn’t going to change that.”Kevin Draper contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein and Sopan DebIt is one of the oldest warnings in sports: Great athletes, they say, don’t often become great coaches.In the case of Magic Johnson, the legendary former Los Angeles Lakers point guard, that maxim must be amended. For Johnson, neither the front office nor the bench proved to be a winning or even comfortable habitat like the hardwood he used as a launching pad to basketball immortality.Johnson’s forgettable coaching career with the Lakers lasted just 16 games at the close of the 1993-94 season before he unhappily vowed never to return to that occupation. Then this week, Johnson’s two-year reign as the Lakers’ president of basketball operations ended even more ignominiously.He abruptly announced his resignation before the team’s final game of an enormously disappointing season, then revealed that he had told the news media of the decision before he had informed his boss, Jeanie Buss, in order to deny Buss an opportunity to talk him out of it.Johnson, of course, has stunned the world before, with his announcement and early retirement in 1991 because he was found to be H.I.V. positive, followed by his brief return to basketball in 1996. He spent the ensuing two decades constructing a business and entertainment empire replete with a highly successful chain of movie theaters and an ownership stake in the storied Los Angeles Dodgers. But Johnson always insisted that he was, first and foremost, a Laker.Handling his exit in such a haphazard manner has earned Johnson untold amounts of criticism in the days since, given how much the Lakers mean to Southern Californians and how unexpected this news was. Yet he seems prepared to take the hits in exchange for the opportunity to return to his more customary post-playing life “on the other side,” as he described it — forever a Laker but officially unattached to any team.“I like to be free,” Johnson said.But his freedom comes at a steep cost — to Johnson, to the Lakers, to a Hollywood belief in, well, magic.It turns out Magic Johnson, who piloted some of the greatest teams in N.B.A. history, will not be the savior who helps the Lakers escape their longest run of futility.After last summer’s blockbuster signing of LeBron James, Johnson proclaimed the Lakers to be “back” — with the promise of a return to full “back back” status this summer once they acquired at least one superstar sidekick to James. Johnson has instead fled just when the most crucial work was about to commence, with no clear path to bringing that second star to a flailing franchise that last reached the playoffs in 2013 and last won a championship in 2010.When he convened an impromptu news conference Tuesday night, rather than reveal his updated plan to restore the Lakers to title contention and placate a frustrated fan base, Johnson did just the opposite. Describing himself as “happier when I wasn’t the president,” he explained that the conditions and pressures attached to building a championship team around James meant that the real Magic “couldn’t come out.”In a series of rambling interviews with a number of news outlets while the Lakers were in the process of losing their regular-season finale to the Portland Trail Blazers, Johnson spoke of how he had longed to send a congratulatory tweet to Oklahoma City’s Russell Westbrook or to tutor Ben Simmons, the rising Philadelphia 76ers star, without inciting a storm of tampering allegations.“I knew if I stayed in the role,” he said, “I’m giving up a lot of me.”Such disclosures, of course, only served to validate much of the skepticism that greeted Buss’s decision to install Johnson as the new face of the Lakers’ basketball operations in February 2017.Rival front-office executives questioned Johnson’s lack of experience in the modern game and his willingness to embrace the all-encompassing nature of the job from the moment he was named to replace the much-maligned Jim Buss (Jeanie’s brother) and Mitch Kupchak, the longtime Lakers executive. Those questions only rose in volume when Buss named as Magic’s sidekick another front-office neophyte, Rob Pelinka, Kobe Bryant’s polarizing former agent.There were red flags from the start. In taking on his first active role with an N.B.A. team since his second retirement as a player in 1996, Johnson admitted that he had much to learn about navigating the ins and outs of the N.B.A.’s complex salary cap and the rhythms of a job that had evolved so much in his time away.“The main part for me is really learning the other part that I didn’t know, and that is to understand the C.B.A., the salary cap, where we are in terms of the salary cap and who’s a free-agent-to-be,” Johnson told USA Today of the challenges he faced in building a roster and understanding the collective bargaining agreement.Part of the issue might have been that Johnson could never just be a basketball executive. He is a mogul and a cultural force. While other N.B.A. teams primarily lean on decision makers focusing solely on basketball, Johnson seemed to always have his eye on something bigger than the game itself — reaching with his business tentacles to as many corners as possible.Johnson acquired a 4.5 percent share of the Lakers in 1994 before selling his stake in 2010. He even once hosted a syndicated late-night talk show, 1998’s “The Magic Hour.” And he was never just about one game either, acquiring a minority stake in the Dodgers in 2012 and one in the Los Angeles Football Club of Major League Soccer in 2014.Business had clearly been on Johnson’s mind when he took the Lakers’ front-office job in 2017. He told “CBS This Morning” in an interview at the time that he had turned down other offers to run a franchise, including the embattled Knicks, but that he felt it was the right time to rejoin the Lakers.“At this point in my life, you know, I think that I can do it right now because my businesses are running smooth,” Johnson said. “I can turn them over to my executive team that I have.” In that same interview, he said, “I always wanted to be the male Oprah.”Johnson was one of the first athletes to build an empire for himself outside professional sports. He went from whipping behind-the-back passes and being the engine that made the 1980s Showtime Lakers rev to investing in more than 100 Starbucks and Burger King locations, among many other business investments, all while flashing his famed charismatic grin. According to a Basketball Reference estimate, Johnson made about $23 million from N.B.A. salary alone, not including endorsements. Now his net worth is in the hundreds of millions.The business of reviving the Lakers, however, proved beyond him. Buss, as a result, is already facing pressure to rebound from her nostalgic faith in Johnson to pursue a more accomplished executive this time — such as Golden State’s Bob Myers or San Antonio’s R. C. Buford — to plot the team’s recovery from a season soaked in drama and dysfunction.Bizarre as the timing seemed, Johnson insisted to reporters that there were no hidden reasons for leaving other than the desire, as he put it to ESPN’s Rachel Nichols, to stop “letting myself down by not being Magic Johnson.”What’s clear is that walking away when he did spared him from firing Coach Luke Walton — something Walton and his assistant coaches, according to two people with knowledge of the situation who were not authorized to discuss it publicly, had been bracing for this week. Walton’s culpability for the Lakers’ 37-45 record is a matter of debate, given all of this season’s injuries, but Johnson’s desire to make a change had been widely anticipated in league circles for weeks, if not months. Buss’s well-chronicled fondness for Walton is thought to be the only thing that had kept him in place throughout Johnson’s reign.“I would have to affect someone’s livelihood and their life,” Johnson told reporters Tuesday night, seemingly confirming that he was poised to fire Walton. “And I thought about that. That’s not fun for me. That’s not who I am.”There had never been a player like Johnson before he was drafted out of Michigan State as the first pick in the 1979 N.B.A. draft. His court vision, quickness, length and versatility made him a dominant presence and led to his winning three Most Valuable Player Awards and five N.B.A. championships. He became perhaps the defining face of what it means to be a Laker — no easy feat given the deep well of great players who have worn their familiar purple-and-gold jersey.But the fact that Buss has yet to address the news media, beyond a brief statement insisting that the organization still believed “there is no greater Los Angeles Laker than Earvin Johnson,” speaks to the team’s level of shock that he would step down without warning.At a speaking engagement at Chapman University on April 3, Buss acknowledged that the Lakers “haven’t lived up to the brand my father created,” referring to one of the most successful owners in the history of American team sports: Jerry Buss. The signing of James in free agency last summer — for which Johnson is sometimes subjected to claims that his “closer” role was overstated — could not prevent the Lakers from extending their playoff drought to a franchise-worst sixth consecutive season. That figure matches the Knicks for the league’s third-longest active drought behind Sacramento (13 seasons) and Phoenix (nine).Now, the onus falls squarely on Buss to find a successor to repair a roster in need of overhaul.To Johnson’s relief, such issues are no longer his concern. He returns now to a world he may have felt increasingly more comfortable with anyway in recent years: the one outside basketball. As he told The Los Angeles Times in 2008, Johnson hoped to go down in history as a better businessman than an athlete.“That’s my dream,” Johnson said. “And I’m going after it each and every day.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressJaylen Brown scored 23 points and Kyrie Irving added 19 to help the Boston Celtics beat the host Indiana Pacers, 104-96, on Friday night for a 3-0 lead in the first-round Eastern Conference series.Irving also had 10 assists and 5 rebounds, and Jayson Tatum had 18 points and 7 rebounds for the Celtics, who can eliminate the Pacers on Sunday in Indianapolis.“We’re all making sure we’re giving each other confidence and doing the little things to ensure we win,” Irving said. “When you have that type of camaraderie, executing is a lot easier. Now that the stakes are higher, we’re settling into who we want to be.”Tyreke Evans matched his career playoff high with 19 points for Indiana, and Bojan Bogdanovic had 15, not enough to prevent the Pacers from losing their sixth straight to Boston in the regular season and the playoffs.The Celtics’ defense again turned the game, allowing just 12 points in the third quarter, as they put the Pacers on the brink of their second series sweep in three years.Indiana had erased a 15-point first half deficit to take a 61-59 halftime lead, and Myles Turner opened the third with a 3-pointer for the Pacers. But Boston charged back with 8 straight points to retake the lead and closed the quarter with a 9-2 run to make it 80-73.Boston gave up 8 points in the third quarter of Game 1 and 12 in the fourth quarter of Game 2.RAPTORS 98, MAGIC 83 Pascal Siakam had 30 points and 11 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard added 16 points, and Toronto held off host Orlando to take a 2-1 lead in their Eastern Conference first-round series.Siakam was 13 for 20 from the field, and the Raptors held Orlando to 36 percent shooting. Terrence Ross led Orlando with 24 points, and Nikola Vucevic shook off a slow start to finish with 22 points and 14 rebounds.Game 4 is Sunday night in Orlando.The Raptors trailed, 61-60, midway through the third quarter before going on a 16-0 run over the next four minutes to take the lead for good.Kyle Lowry’s 3-pointer with 7 minutes 48 seconds left gave Toronto its biggest lead, 86-69. The Magic rallied, and Ross’s 3-pointer with 41 seconds left cut the deficit to 96-93.Leonard was short with a jumper on the next possession, but the Magic could not control the rebound. Leonard made two free throws with 12.9 seconds remaining to make it a two-possession game again, and that closed the scoring.Orlando, which finished the regular season by winning 13 of its final 14 home games, was 13 of 44 from 3-point range.THUNDER 120, TRAIL BLAZERS 108 Russell Westbrook had 33 points and 11 assists and Oklahoma City won at home against Portland to cut its Western Conference series deficit to 2-1.Paul George added 22 points, Jerami Grant had 18 and Dennis Schroder 17 for the Thunder, who will host Game 4 on Sunday night.Damian Lillard scored 32 points for the Trail Blazers, but he had just 3 in the fourth quarter after scoring 25 in the third. C.J. McCollum had 21 points, and Enes Kanter added 19.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. PlayoffsBy The Associated PressThe Boston Celtics have been at their best this season when they are forcing turnovers, spacing the floor and knocking down outside shots.They found out in their win at home against the Pacers that they were equipped to win an ugly, physical game as well.Irving and Marcus Morris each scored 20 points, and the Celtics rallied in the second half to beat the Indiana Pacers, 84-74, on Sunday in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.Jayson Tatum finished with 15 points for fourth-seeded Boston, and Al Horford added 10 points and 11 rebounds, and Gordon Hayward had 10 points. It was the first playoff game since 2017 for Irving and Hayward after each missed last year’s postseason with injuries.“I just try to be aggressive on the ball, be in the right spots,” Irving said. “I just really want to be aggressive and really be the head of the snake.”Game 2 is Wednesday night in Boston.The fifth-seeded Pacers led by 11 points in the first half but had just 8 in the third quarter. The Celtics capitalized and led by as many as 22 in the fourth. Indiana finished with a season-worst 29 points in the second half.Cory Joseph had 14 points for the Pacers, and Bojan Bogdanovic was their lone starter in double figures with 12 points.Both teams shot worse than 40 percent from the field. Boston hit just 36 percent (28 of 77) and had 20 turnovers. Indiana connected on 33 percent of its shots (28 of 84) and turned the ball over 13 times.The Celtics’ 84 points were their fewest of the season; it was the first time Boston scored fewer than 100 points and won.“We held them to 84 points,” Indiana’s Wesley Matthews said. “We just didn’t score enough.”BUCKS 121, PISTONS 86 Giannis Antetokounmpo had 24 points and 17 rebounds in just 24 minutes, and top-seeded Milwaukee routed eighth-seeded Detroit in their East opener.Antetokounmpo ran and dunked all over the visiting Pistons, who caught him only when center Andre Drummond shoved him to the ground late in the third quarter after Antetokounmpo grabbed an offensive rebound with Detroit trailing by 41 points.Drummond was given a flagrant 2 foul and ejected. He threw a kiss to the Fiserv Forum crowd as he was escorted off the court.Antetokounmpo struggled at the free-throw line, making only five of 12 attempts, but was 9 for 17 from the field and 1 of 5 from 3-point range.Luke Kennard paced the Pistons with 21 points off the bench, and Drummond had 12 points and 12 rebounds. Detroit played without forward Blake Griffin, who has a left knee injury.TRAIL BLAZERS 104, THUNDER 99 Damian Lillard scored 30 points and third-seeded Portland opened its Western Conference series against sixth-seeded Oklahoma City Thunder with a win at home.Enes Kanter added 20 points and a career playoff-high 18 rebounds for the Blazers, who are making their sixth straight postseason appearance but had lost eight games in a row over the previous two postseasons. C J McCollum added 24 points.Russell Westbrook had 24 points, 10 assists and 10 rebounds for his ninth career postseason triple-double. Paul George, who was a game-time decision because of a sore shoulder, added 26 points and 10 rebounds after a slow start.Portland led by as many as 19 points in the first half, but the Thunder pulled to 80-77 early in the fourth quarter. Oklahoma City could not get closer, and Lillard hit a 30-footer to extend the Blazers’ lead to 89-81 with 6 minutes 38 seconds left.Westbrook appeared to hurt his right knee or ankle and grimaced while trying to walk it off. Trainers attended to him on the bench at the next timeout but he returned and his layup closed the gap to 91-87 with just under four minutes left.ROCKETS 122, JAZZ 90 James Harden had 29 points and 10 assists to help host Houston rout Utah on Sunday night in Game 1 of their Western Conference series.The fourth-seeded Rockets had a double-digit lead for most of the game, but the fifth-seeded Jazz pulled to 5 behind midway through the third quarter before Houston used a big run to pull away. Rudy Gobert had 22 points and 12 rebounds for the Jazz.It is the second consecutive year these teams have met in the postseason; Houston eliminated Utah in five games in the second round last season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt Stevens and Kevin DraperThe Utah Jazz permanently banned a fan who they said aggressively taunted Russell Westbrook, one of the N.B.A.’s premier players, during a game Monday night in an incident that has prompted discussions about fan racism and player security.Westbrook, the star guard of the Oklahoma City Thunder, said the fan directed “disrespectful” and “racial” comments toward him. “A young man and his wife in the stands told me to get down on my knees ‘like you used to,’ ” Westbrook said.In a video posted on Twitter by a reporter for The Deseret News, Westbrook, who is black, can be seen using expletives to say that he will beat up the fan, who appears to be white, and extends the threat to include the man’s wife. The video is about 30 seconds long and does not show the full encounter or what prompted Westbrook, a guard for the visiting Oklahoma City Thunder, to react to the fan.After the game, Westbrook told reporters that the man had said “disrespectful things” about him and his family that he thought were “racial” and suggested that the video posted online lacked important context.He acknowledged that he had threatened to beat up the fan’s wife but said he had “never put his hand on a woman” and “never will.” He also stood by his actions, saying, “If I had to do it over again, I would say the same exact thing.”On Tuesday afternoon, the N.B.A. announced that it had fined Westbrook $25,000 “for directing profanity and threatening language to a fan.” The announcement came shortly after the Jazz, in a statement, said the fan would be permanently banned from all events at Vivint Smart Home Arena because of “excessive and derogatory verbal abuse directed at a player.” The team said it had conducted an investigation that included reviews of video and eyewitness accounts.The confrontation between Westbrook and the Jazz fan — who has presented a starkly different description of the episode — is the latest in a series of incidents that spotlight how fans treat athletes and the sometimes explosive consequences that can result, issues that both Westbrook and the N.B.A. have frequently been at the center of.“There’s no protection for the players,” Westbrook said in his postgame comments, which were transcribed by a reporter for The Salt Lake Tribune and later provided to The New York Times by the Thunder, who otherwise didn’t comment on the incident. “I think there are a lot of great fans who like to come to the game and enjoy the game. And then there are people that come to the game to say disrespectful things about me, my family.”Westbrook’s teammates backed his account of the interaction. Raymond Felton told reporters that he had overheard the comments made by the fan and said they were “totally disrespectful.” Patrick Patterson appeared to confirm Westbrook’s account of events on Twitter, and wrote that “fans are protected in every way possible but not us.”Multiple news outlets identified the Jazz fan as Shane Keisel. Keisel told ESPN that he did not swear at Westbrook or otherwise say anything inappropriate, and that he believed they were having fun. In an interview with local television station KSL, Keisel said Westbrook had been using profanity and “acting a fool,” which fans responded to by heckling him.Keisel said he saw Westbrook’s knees wrapped in towels, so he told him to “sit down and ice your knees, bro.” Westbrook responded that the wraps were for heat, Keisel said, adding that he then told Westbrook, “Well, you’re going to need it.” Keiser said the woman sitting next to him, who ESPN identified as his wife, Jennifer Huff, did not say anything to Westbrook and had her hands in her lap.Attempts to reach Keisel on Tuesday were unsuccessful.Keisel was sitting in the third row on the baseline, near the Thunder bench. Unlike in most other sports, in basketball fans can sit just a few feet away from players. This can lead to good-natured and spirited exchanges — like the back-and-forth heckling between Spike Lee and Reggie Miller in the 1990s — but also to large problems.Most infamous is what is known as The Malice at the Palace in 2004. After a brawl between the Indiana Pacers and Detroit Pistons at The Palace of Auburn Hills in Detroit, a fan threw a drink at Ron Artest, a Pacers forward at the time who has since changed his name to Metta World Peace. Artest charged into the stands, followed closely by teammate Stephen Jackson, and threw a punch at a fan. Artest was suspended for 86 games, and five players eventually pleaded no contest to misdemeanor assault charges.Since the incident, the N.B.A. has taken numerous steps to prevent violence, especially between players and fans. Players are now automatically suspended if they leave the bench during an on-court altercation, and fans whose unacceptable conduct is overheard by or reported to security are issued cards warning them that they can be ejected from the arena.In a statement after the game, the Jazz said arena security issued several warning cards to fans during the game.Westbrook has had a number of run-ins with fans in the past, including in Salt Lake City. During last year’s playoffs, Westbrook twice got into it with fans while leaving the court. The first time he stepped toward and yelled at a fan that was leaning over the railing talking to him; the second time Westbrook swiped at a phone that a fan had pushed toward his face.“Here in Utah, a lot of disrespectful, vulgar things are said to the players here with these fans,” Westbrook said after that game. Afterward, Jazz officials said that their arena security was adequate, and updated their in-arena video message about fan behavior.Last month in Denver, a child sitting in the front row gave Westbrook a small shove as he landed out of bounds. Westbrook bent over and calmly spoke to a man nearby and the child, patting him on the knee and shaking his hand before returning to the game. “I told his dad, ‘Be careful, man. You can’t have your son just hitting random people,’ ” Westbrook said after that game.Westbrook also pushed a fan who confronted him on the court after a game in Denver last year, and was fined $25,000 for shouting a vulgarity at a Dallas Mavericks fan in 2016.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherKyle Korver, the veteran N.B.A. player, said he was embarrassed by some of his thoughts about race in the past and uncomfortable about the contradictions of being a white player in a largely black sport. And in an essay in The Players’ Tribune, he strongly urged action to redress racism around the N.B.A. and in the United States.In the essay, titled “Privileged,” Korver, who plays for the Utah Jazz, recounted an incident from when he played for the Atlanta Hawks. After a teammate, Thabo Sefolosha, was injured and arrested in New York in 2015, Korver said his first reaction was, “What was Thabo doing out at a club on a back-to-back?” rather than concern about the injury or dismay over the arrest. “I sort of blamed Thabo,” he said.Cringing at that thought today, Korver noted that as a white man, “I probably would’ve been safe on the street that one night in New York.”In March, Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder had an altercation with a fan in Salt Lake City. Korver told a reporter at the time: “You know Russ. He gets into it with the crowd a lot.” But soon after, he heard the full story, that Westbrook heard the fan make “racial” remarks, as Westbrook put it. His teammates shared stories of similar experiences. “Guys were just sick and tired of it all,” he wrote.His words resonated as a white player speaking on race, in a league with predominantly black athletes playing before predominantly white crowds.He noted this position: “I have more in common with the fans in the crowd at your average N.B.A. game than I have with the players on the court.”“I may work with those guys. And I absolutely 100 percent stand with them. But I look like the other guy. And whether I like it or not? I’m beginning to understand how that means something.”The essay drew positive reactions from the world of the N.B.A. and elsewhere.“Salute my brother,” LeBron James said on Twitter. “Means a lot. And like you said, I hope people listen, just open your ears and listen.”Korver, 38, has played for five N.B.A. teams over a career dating to 2003. At his peak, he was one of the game’s best shooters, especially 3-pointers. This season, he is averaging 9 points and 20 minutes a game with the Jazz.His essay wrestles with systemic racism throughout America, and Korver said: “As white people, are we guilty of the sins of our forefathers? No, I don’t think so. But are we responsible for them? Yes, I believe we are.”“It’s about understanding on a fundamental level that black people and white people, they still have it different in America. And that those differences come from an ugly history … not some random divide.”“I believe that what’s happening to people of color in this country — right now, in 2019 — is wrong,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTiger Woods' win at the Masters is still a hot topic. PodcastOne Sports Now hosts Jim Litke and Tim Dahlberg look back at the memorable moment that transcended the sports world. Litke and Dahlberg also discuss what Woods may do next for his career and the sport with AP Golf Writer Doug Ferguson, who was honored last week for receiving the PGA Lifetime Achievement Award in Journalism.Guest host Larry Lage catches up with Mike Tirico of NBC Sports after he filled in as an announcer at the Masters for Westwood One Radio. Jemele Hill, a staff writer for The Atlantic and host of "Jemele Hill is Unbothered," shares her thoughts on Woods' comeback and the essay Kyle Korver of the Utah Jazz recently wrote about white privilege for The Players' Tribune.ESPN analyst Chauncey Billups wraps up the weekly podcast, talking about his admiration for Woods. The 2004 NBA champion also breaks down the NBA playoffs, recalls being part of the infamous brawl involving the Detroit Pistons, Indiana Pacers and fans nearly 15 years ago and says he wants to be an NBA general manager.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressHOUSTON — James Harden and the Houston Rockets didn't talk about their defeat at home by the Utah Jazz in the second game of their second-round playoff series last season before Game 2 of their first-round matchup on Wednesday night.The Beard and his teammates were certainly thinking about it though.Harden put on an MVP performance with 32 points, 13 rebounds and 10 assists to lead the Rockets to a second straight rout of the Utah Jazz, 118-98, for a 2-0 lead in the best-of-seven series.The Rockets also won Game 1 of last year's series easily before losing that second game in Houston. They ended up winning the series in five games, but talked about the importance of maintaining focus after their 32-point win in Game 1 this season to avoid another such letdown.It was clear early that they wouldn't have that problem this time around."It was important for us to come out aggressive," Harden said. "I think it was our defensive effort."Harden, who recorded his third career playoff triple-double, had 25 points by halftime in a game the Jazz were all but out of after the first two quarters.Game 3 is Saturday night in Utah.Harden controlled the game from the start as the Rockets raced out to a 39-19 lead after a first quarter where he scored just two points fewer than the Jazz."What he did in that first quarter was ridiculous," coach Mike D'Antoni said. "Just dicing everybody up. When he gets it rolling nobody's better."Houston made 6 of 13 3-pointers in the first and Utah hit just one of its 14 tries. The Rockets didn't let up in the second quarter and had pushed their advantage to 70-44 at halftime.Ricky Rubio was the man tasked with guarding him most of the night."He's hard but I'm not going to quit," he said. "He's one of the best scorers of all time and we're going to keep trying to find ways to make his scoring hard."The Jazz got 17 points each from Rubio and Royce O'Neale. Second-year star Donovan Mitchell vowed to do more after scoring 19 points in Game 1, finishing with five turnovers and no assists. He did have more assists, dishing out six, but managed just 11 points on 5-of-19 shooting and had four turnovers as the Jazz head home needing to turn things around quickly to avoid a series that looks to be headed for a sweep."We didn't show up," Mitchell said. "Simply put. And that can't happen."Houston's big early lead was also helped by 4-of-5 3-point shooting in the first half by P.J. Tucker and 16 points from Eric Gordon, who made three 3-pointers. Gordon didn't score after halftime and Tucker added four points.The Rockets had a 15-point lead midway through the second quarter when Harden made a 3-pointer, and on the next possession banked in another one as he was knocked to the court on a foul by Thabo Sefolosha. Harden watched the ball go in as he sat on the court and did a little shimmy with his shoulders. The play drew a roar from the crowd and the video boards flashed to a fan holding a sign that read: 'unguardable.' before panning to former Rocket star and Hall of Famer Hakeem Olajuwon, who raised his arms and smiled.Harden missed the free throw but he'd still helped the Rockets push the lead to 52-31.The Jazz got within 17 on a tip-in by Jae Crowder with about four minutes left in the third, but Houston made the next seven points, highlighted by a 3 from Harden, to make it 90-66 about 90 seconds later.The Rockets were up by 28 entering the fourth quarter and had a 97-73 lead when Harden entered the game for the first time in the fourth quarter with eight minutes left. His 10th assist came with about 3 ½ minutes to go when he found a wide-open Kenneth Faried, who finished with a dunk to make it 107-87.TIP-INSJazz: Rudy Gobert had 11 points and 12 rebounds. ... Utah shot just 39.8 percent after shooting 39 percent in Game 1. ... Jazz finished 8 of 38 on 3-pointers. ... Derrick Favors scored 14 points and had 12 rebounds.Rockets: Houston, which had 17 3s, has made at least 15 3-pointers in 11 straight games. ... Clint Capela had seven points and 10 rebounds. ... Chris Paul added 17 points.REMEMBERING NIPSEYHarden wore a medallion with a picture of rapper and activist Nipsey Hussle, who was murdered last month, to Wednesday's game. He shared a heartfelt answer when asked why it's important to remember him."I'm just here because he's one of my close friends," Harden said. "This journey that I'm on is for him. It's plain and simple. That name Nip. Everybody knows that name now. So I'm just another person that's just helping that name live on."THEY SAID ITTucker on the team's focus: "When we do what we do, I don't think anybody can beat us. And that's a fact, I don't care. If we come out and communicate and when our guys get going and are aggressive, we're tough."ODDS AND ENDSHouston is 8-0 at home in the first round since D'Antoni took over for the 2016-17 season. ... The Jazz have lost eight of their last 10 playoff games on the road since 2017 including four of five at Houston. ... It's the first time the Rockets have won consecutive playoff games by 20 points or more.UP NEXTAfter Game 3 on Saturday, the series stays in Utah for Game 4 on Monday night.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead seven players in double figures and the Los Angeles Clippers defeated the Utah Jazz 143-137 in overtime on Wednesday night, snapping a three-game skid to close the regular season.Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Patrick Beverley had 14 points in his return from injury.The Clippers' losing streak had already dropped them from the sixth seed to No. 8 in the playoffs, where they'll open against the defending champion Golden State Warriors.Grayson Allen led Utah with a career-high 40 points. The rookie made 13 of 14 free throws and five 3-pointers, but was limited to four points in overtime.The Jazz earned the fifth seed and they'll play No. 4 Houston in the first round.The Clippers dominated overtime, 17-8. Zubac had back-to-back dunks and rookie Jerome Robinson scored six of his seven points.The Jazz outscored the Clippers 29-24 in the fourth after Los Angeles led by nine. Allen had 14 points in the quarter.His free throws put Utah ahead 126-124, but the Jazz fouled Sindarius Thornwell, who made both to tie it up and force overtime.The Clippers shot 71 percent in the first quarter when they led by 17.They blew that lead by the third when the Jazz tied it twice. Harrell scored the Clippers' last two baskets to send them into the fourth leading 102-97.TIP-INSJazz: F-C Derrick Favors (back spasms) missed his fifth straight game. ... C Rudy Gobert (left ankle soreness), G Kyle Korver (right knee soreness), G Donovan Mitchell (thoracic spasm), G Ricky Rubio (left quad contusion) and G Raul Neto (left ankle soreness) sat out. ... They have won eight of 10. ... They lost the second game of their final back-to-back.Clippers: Beverley returned after missing the last three games with a right hip pointer. ... They lost the season series 2-1.UP NEXTJazz: Meet Houston in first round of Western Conference playoffs.Clippers: Meet defending champion Golden State in first round.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressHOUSTON — The Utah Jazz tried to force the left-handed James Harden to his right to make things more difficult on him on Game 1 of their first-round playoff series against the Houston Rockets on Sunday night.Didn't matter much to Harden and the Rockets though. He still led the team in scoring and helped facilitate solid offensive nights from everyone else in the starting lineup in the lopsided win.Harden had 29 points and 10 assists to help the Rockets rout the Jazz 122-90 in the opener of the best-of-seven series.Houston's entire starting lineup had at least 10 points. Eric Gordon had 17, Clint Capela scored 16, Chris Paul added 14 and P.J. Tucker had 11."They throw something at him and they might get him a little bit and he figures it out and they don't get him anymore," coach Mike D'Antoni said about the defensive strategy on Harden. "He's so good offensively it makes me laugh. He's just so good I don't know what you do ... you're not stopping him. I don't care what you do."Harden wasn't surprised at Utah's defensive tactic."I've seen literally every defense you can possibly see," he said. "So it was just a matter of adjusting and continuing to communicate with the guys of what spots they needed to be in."The Rockets had a double-digit lead for most of the game, but the Jazz got within five points midway through the third quarter before Houston used a big run to pull away and sail to the victory."The third quarter we got some stops and we didn't get shots on the other end and that's tough to overcome," Jazz coach Quin Snyder said.It's the second consecutive year the teams have met in the postseason after the Rockets eliminated Utah in five games in the second round last season.Game 2 is Wednesday night in Houston.Houston was up by 15 in the fourth quarter before Harden, who had eight rebounds, scored six points in a 9-2 run that stretched the lead to 108-86 with four minutes left and both teams cleared their benches about a minute after that.Rudy Gobert had 22 points and 12 rebounds to lead the Jazz after not scoring more than 15 points in a game in the playoff series against the Rockets last season. Donovan Mitchell had 19 points, but did not have an assist as the Jazz went long stretches without scoring.Mitchell was disappointed with his assist-to-turnover ratio."No assists. Five turnovers. That's huge," he said. "You can't have no assists and five turnovers."Ricky Rubio started after missing four of the last five games of the regular season with a quadriceps injury. Rubio, who finished with 15 points, didn't play against Houston in the playoffs last season after injuring his hamstring in a first-round series win over the Oklahoma City Thunder.Houston had a 12-point lead entering the fourth quarter and an 8-0 spurt, with two 3-pointers from Danuel House, extended it to 95-75 with nine minutes remaining.The Rockets led by 17 when Harden re-entered the game about a minute later. Soon after he returned he found House behind the 3-point line in the corner and drove to the basket and finished with a one-handed slam.The Rockets were up by 15 at halftime, but Utah opened the second half with a 10-3 run, with six points from Gobert, to cut it to 62-54 with nine minutes left in the third.The Jazz got within five with a shot from Mitchell later in the third, before the Rockets scored next 10 points, with a 3 from Gordon and a three-point play from Harden, to make it 76-61 with about four minutes left in the quarter.Mitchell ended a Utah scoring drought of about 4 ½ minutes after that with a 3-pointer, but Harden hit a 3 seconds later to leave the Rockets up 79-64.Utah cut into the lead a bit after that and trailed 83-71 after three.TIP-INSJazz: Derrick Favors had 13 points. ... Utah went 7 for 27 on 3s. ... The Jazz had 18 turnovers. ... Jae Crowder scored nine points off the bench.Rockets: D'Antoni was back on the sideline after missing Houston's last three regular-season games with an intestinal virus. ... Hall of Famer and former Rocket Hakeem Olajuwon watched the game from a courtside seat. ... Houston made 15 3-pointers, led by four from Harden.CAPELA'S HEALTHCapela played despite dealing with an upper respiratory infection that kept him out of practice two days this week. Houston's center said he still wasn't feeling great and hopes he's better by Wednesday."It was hard," he said. "I would say it was probably my toughest game ... it felt kind of hard to breathe like I'm used to."THEY SAID ITMitchell on moving on after the blowout loss: "Honestly we could have won this game by 90 or lost this game by 90 ... for us it's just about making adjustments and not overreacting to what happened."UP NEXTAfter Game 2 on Wednesday the series moves to Utah for Game 3 on Saturday and Game 4 on April 22.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. season unofficially began with a superstar’s trade demand before the superstar in question (Jimmy Butler) and his team at the time (Minnesota) had even convened for training camp.Seven months and more than 1,200 games later, Magic Johnson upstaged the retirements of two legends — Dirk Nowitzki and Dwyane Wade — in unbecoming fashion by abruptly walking away from Jeanie Buss, LeBron James and the rest of the Los Angeles Lakers through a chaotic hour of unscheduled interviews with the news media.And there were countless dramas and controversies between those bookends, from the Houston Rockets’ poor start and near-instant divorce from Carmelo Anthony ... to the sad disintegration of the New Orleans Pelicans’ season after Anthony Davis’s trade demand … to the Lakers’ injury-driven collapse that ultimately prevented King James from reaching the postseason for the first time in 14 years.Regular season? Hardly. From Butler’s trade request to Friday’s announcement from the Lakers that they were parting ways with Coach Luke Walton, it was an exhausting ride. Yet we’ve finally arrived where we wanted to be all along: Saturday’s start of the playoffs.The overriding question now, as we step off that roller coaster and onto another, remains Golden State-centric for the fourth successive spring:Can anyone out there beat the Warriors four times in a seven-game series?My answer remains a firm no. But what will make this postseason unlike any other, beyond LeBron’s absence, is the array of ancillary questions sure to sprout about the futures of the Warriors and many of the teams chasing them.Only 80 days away, remember, is the July 1 start of a free-agent frenzy that is bound to be strongly influenced by playoff results. The principals: Golden State’s Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and DeMarcus Cousins; Boston’s Kyrie Irving; Toronto’s Kawhi Leonard; Philadelphia’s Tobias Harris and Butler; Milwaukee’s Khris Middleton; Charlotte’s Kemba Walker; and Orlando’s Nikola Vucevic.Just to name 10 past, present and future All-Stars.“I think this summer is going to be the most pivotal time in N.B.A. history,” said Charles Barkley, Turner Sports’ Hall of Fame analyst. “It’s going to dictate the next five years.”Any chance the Raptors have of persuading Leonard to stay in Canada, after months of noise suggesting that the Los Angeles Clippers are the front-runners to sign him, would seem to depend on a run to the N.B.A. finals. The Raptors are indeed my pick to get there by winning the post-LeBron East, but the high stakes involved, along with Toronto’s tortured playoff history, will weigh heavily on this team despite its potential as a defensive juggernaut.The pressure is even more tangible in Philadelphia thanks to the 76ers’ all-in trades for Harris and Butler. Those two, along with the sharpshooting J J Redick, are all free agents-to-be. It’s a lot for Sixers Coach Brett Brown to manage, especially when his best player, Joel Embiid, may not be available for the start of Philadelphia’s first-round series with the Nets because of a knee issue that has lingered since the All-Star Game. Whispers about Brown’s job security, as a result, are starting to circulate.Uncertainty likewise smothers the Celtics, who failed to even win 50 games and openly grappled with chemistry issues after finding the reintegration of Irving and Gordon Hayward, the former All-Star swingman, far more complicated than anyone — Boston officials included — expected. Fears of a two-round injury absence for the rugged guard Marcus Smart don’t help, with the looming specter of Irving’s free agency and a possible trade pursuit of Davis adding to the tension.Milwaukee, meanwhile, has the statistical profile of a team that should be heavily favored to represent the East in the finals and potentially take down the Warriors — except for the fact that the next playoff series won by the otherworldly Giannis Antetokounmpo will be his first. The Bucks are the only team in the league that ranked in the top five in offensive and defensive efficiency, but I confess to being one of those old-school pundits hung up on their lack of big-game experience.Denver is the West’s answer to Milwaukee and proof as a No. 2 seed that there were some uplifting tales to celebrate amid all of the transactional chaos and personality conflicts that tend to dominate the league’s slice of the social media universe. But the Nuggets’ own inexperience didn’t just steer me away from naming them as the Warriors’ top threat in the conference — it makes them vulnerable in Round 1 against San Antonio.It’s Houston, then, which stands as the team most capable of derailing the Warriors’ bid for a three-peat. Houston’s problem is that a costly slip to the No. 4 seed in the West dropped it into Golden State’s half of the playoff bracket. The Rockets now must face the Utah Jazz in a first-round matchup featuring the hottest (Houston went 20-5) and third-hottest (Utah went 18-7) teams since the All-Star break.For all the talk that the Rockets may benefit from a rematch with the Warriors in the conference semifinals rather than the West finals, when James Harden and Chris Paul are theoretically fresher, it may actually be Golden State that benefits the most from watching Houston and Utah beating each other up so early.The Warriors won’t refuse the help, either, because their veterans and coaches would undoubtedly argue that their regular-season grind is longer than anyone’s after four consecutive trips to the championship round. Ceaseless speculation about Durant’s potential free-agent defection to the Knicks or the Nets — yes, I’m indeed warning you now not to sleep on Brooklyn — has only added to Coach Steve Kerr’s daily challenge to keep his team focused.Another warning: Don’t forget that the Warriors tend to find that focus quickly once the calendar flips to the postseason. So many of their last 82 games were billed as uncharacteristically joyless, but Golden State is 32-6 in the playoffs since adding Durant.As long as Stephen Curry’s ankle scare earlier this week scare proves as minor as it appeared, bank on the Warriors to become the first team in 52 seasons — out of the 744 teams to reach the playoffs in that time — to make a fifth straight finals appearance. And then snag title No. 4 to cement themselves as indisputably dynastic.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The evolution of Giannis Antetokounmpo into a global star has been playing out for six seasons. It manifests in soaring dunks, or blocked shots from the weak side that defy logic, or wraparound passes to an open shooter, or crossover dribbles that leave defenders reeling in his impossibly long-limbed wake.But Pat Connaughton, a reserve guard, did not have the opportunity to witness Antetokounmpo’s feats on a daily basis until last summer, when he signed with the Milwaukee Bucks and joined his new teammates for scrimmages ahead of training camp.“You’d see him do something ridiculous, and I’d be looking around and nobody would be reacting,” Connaughton recalled. “Like, ‘Did you guys not just see that?’”For the players who have been around Antetokounmpo the longest, there may be an element of genius fatigue at work — not that they take him for granted. Malcolm Brogdon, a third-year guard, tried to provide some context for Connaughton at one of those early scrimmages.“You’ll get used to it after a while,” Brogdon told him. “It happens all the time.”Antetokounmpo, 24, has turned the sublime into the routine. But the novelty has not worn off for N.B.A. fans, who have made him appointment viewing this season, and the Bucks have shaped themselves into contenders by following his lead. On top of that, nearly two years after Kobe Bryant, the retired Los Angeles Lakers guard, challenged Antetokounmpo to win the league’s Most Valuable Player Award, he may be on the verge of upending the Eastern Conference to do so.“Everything you see about him or hear about him is how hard he works,” Lakers Coach Luke Walton said, “and how great he wants to be.”The Bucks improved their league-best record to 48-14 after coming from behind to defeat the Lakers on Friday night at Staples Center. Antetokounmpo, who has been dealing with right knee soreness, finished with 16 points and 15 rebounds in the Bucks’ 131-120 win, which qualified as a quiet effort for him. But he had his moments.Early in the fourth quarter, he sized up Mike Muscala, his 6-foot-11 defender, at the top of the perimeter. He took a couple of hard dribbles into the paint, threw his right shoulder into Muscala to knock him off balance, then dunked over him with his left hand.“He draws so much attention,” Bucks Coach Mike Budenholzer said.It was a play that helped ignite the Bucks, who enjoyed an eventful day. After point guard Eric Bledsoe agreed to a four-year, $70 million contract extension in the afternoon, he roasted the Lakers for a season-high 31 points. In addition, Pau Gasol was expected to join the team after securing a buyout from the San Antonio Spurs.“Unbelievable guy,” Antetokounmpo said of Gasol. “He’s been to the finals. He has so much experience. I think he’s definitely going to help us.”The Bucks are readying for a playoff run with Antetokounmpo as their focal point. Entering their game against the Utah Jazz on Saturday night, Antetokounmpo was averaging 26.8 points, 12.6 rebounds and 5.9 assists while shooting 57.9 percent from the field.“When the season started, we knew we had something special — we had a great team,” he said. “But to be honest with you, no, I never thought we were going to have the best record in the N.B.A.“But I think we’ve worked hard for it, we go out there and show up for every game, and we try to win every game.”There is no apt historical comparison for Antetokounmpo because the league has never seen anyone quite like him. He is too long and too strong, too quick and too skilled, a 6-foot-11 power forward who can defend point guards at one end and post up the league’s stoutest centers at the other. As for Antetokounmpo’s unique athleticism, Connaughton considers him to be something of a hybrid of Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors and LeBron James of the Lakers.“He’s got the length of K.D.,” Connaughton said, “but now he’s at the point where he’s got the strength of LeBron — or at least he’s on that trajectory. And that speaks volumes about his work ethic and his desire to be the best that he can be. Because not a lot of guys with that talent work that hard.”Connaughton, whose playing time has fluctuated this season, often goes to the team’s practice facility on off days for extra shooting and conditioning work. Antetokounmpo, Connaughton said, is always there, too. He is a gym rat in the second year of a four-year, $100 million contract. Connaughton joined the Bucks after three seasons with the Portland Trail Blazers, and he said Antetokounmpo plays with the same motor — the same mind-set — as Damian Lillard, the Blazers’ All-Star point guard.“Obviously Dame is a different player, but I think they share an inner desire,” Connaughton said. “It has nothing to do with the outside. It has nothing to do with the media, the attention or the press. Like, they’re in it for their own reasons — the right reasons, in my opinion.”Whenever Budenholzer is asked about it, which is often these days, he makes a compelling case for Antetokounmpo as the N.B.A.’s most valuable player — and he cites his defense as Exhibit A. Antetokounmpo is so dynamic on offense, Budenholzer said, that it tends to overshadow everything else is does. Sure enough, he had three blocked shots against the Lakers.Antetokounmpo is not going to create headlines with bold predictions — after Friday’s win, he repeated familiar mantras about taking it “day by day” and continuing to “work hard” — but the Bucks must be thinking big. All around them, powerhouse teams are struggling. Even the Warriors, the two-time defending champions, have had issues.Few thought the Bucks would be this good this quickly, but everyone was saying the same thing about Antetokounmpo when he entered the league at age 19. Suddenly, the future is now.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Kennard scored 27 points off the bench and the postseason-bound Detroit Pistons closed out their regular season finale by walloping the host New York Knicks 115-89 on Wednesday.The Pistons (41-41) qualified for the Eastern Conference playoffs for just the second time since the 2009-10 season. They were swept by Cleveland in the opening round of the 2015-16 playoffs.Detroit will be the No. 8 seed and face top-seeded Milwaukee in the first round.Kennard's point total was one shy of his career high. Reggie Jackson had 21 points and Andre Drummond supplied 20 points and 18 rebounds for Detroit. Wayne Ellington tossed in 12 points, all on 3-point makes.Heat 113, Nets 94Dwyane Wade ended his storied career with a triple-double of 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists as visiting Miami was dealt a loss to Brooklyn, which clinched sixth place in the Eastern Conference.The Nets honored Wade with a video tribute in pregame introductions by highlighting some of his notable shots against them over the course of a 16-year career while the text on the screen read "Thanks for the Memories."With longtime friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony sitting courtside, Wade recorded his fifth career triple-double in his 1,054th regular-season game since entering the league as the fifth overall pick out of Marquette in 2003.Spurs 105, Mavericks 94LaMarcus Aldridge poured in 34 points and totaled 16 rebounds to help propel San Antonio to a resounding win over visiting Dallas in the regular-season finale for both teams.It was also the final game in the 21-year career of Dallas forward Dirk Nowitzki, who led Dallas with 20 points and pulled down 10 rebounds in 31 minutes of play before leaving the court for the final time with 47 seconds remaining.The win was San Antonio's third straight and -- combined with Oklahoma City's win over Milwaukee -- earned the Spurs the seventh seed in the NBA playoffs, where they will face the Denver Nuggets. Dallas, playing the second game of an emotional home-road back-to-back, had a two-game winning streak snapped and they will miss the postseason for the third straight season.Trail Blazers 136, Kings 131Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a season-high 37 points to lift Portland to a come-from-behind victory over visiting Sacramento.Skal Labissiere added 29 points and 15 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who trailed by as many as 28 points in the first half.Jake Layman, Meyers Leonard and Gary Trent Jr. scored 19 points apiece for Portland (53-29), which gained the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference and will face No. 6 Oklahoma City (49-33) in the first round of the playoffs.Nuggets 99, Timberwolves 95Jamal Murray hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 31.5 seconds left, and host Denver scored the final 15 points of the game to beat Minnesota to earn the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference.Nikola Jokic finished with 29 points and 14 rebounds and Murray scored 17 for Denver. The Nuggets (54-28) will play the San Antonio Spurs in the first round of the playoffs.Andrew Wiggins scored 25 points, Gorgui Dieng had 18 points and 11 rebounds and Cameron Reynolds added 19 points off the bench for the short-handed Timberwolves (36-46).Clippers 143, Jazz 137 (OT)With their respective playoff spots locked, Los Angeles and Utah ended their regular seasons in overtime, where the Clippers won to end a three-game losing streak.Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead the Clippers. Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Lou Williams scored 15 off the bench.Utah rookie Grayson Allen scored a career-high 40 points and Georges Niang scored a career-best 24 off the bench.Thunder 127, Bucks 116Dennis Schroder scored 32 points to help Oklahoma City earn the No. 6 seed in the Western Conference with a win at Milwaukee.The Bucks, who had already sealed the top seed in the Eastern Conference coming into the game, sat three starters -- Giannis Antetokounmpo, Eric Bledsoe and Brook Lopez -- to rest them for the playoffs.Milwaukee (60-22) will start the playoffs against the eighth-seeded Detroit Pistons (41-41). The Thunder (49-33) will open the playoffs against the third-seeded Portland Trail Blazers (53-29).Pacers 135, Hawks 134Edmond Sumner made three free throws with 0.3 seconds remaining to lift Indiana to a road win over Atlanta in the final regular-season game for both teams.Atlanta finished the season with a 29-53 record while Indiana (48-34) heads into the playoffs winners of only four of its last 13 games.The fifth-place Pacers will oppose the fourth-place Boston Celtics (49-33) in the first round of the Eastern Conference postseason.Magic 122, Hornets 114Terrence Ross came off the bench to score a season-high 35 points, and playoff-bound Orlando ended Charlotte's season.Ross scored 19 of his points in the first half, when the Magic led by as many as 13. He finished 12 of 19 from the field and 6 of 10 from 3-point range. Ross' performance overshadowed a 43-point explosion by Charlotte's Kemba Walker in the defeat.The Magic (42-40) remained the No. 7 seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs with the victory, and will face second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs.Grizzlies 132, Warriors 117Memphis dizzied visiting Golden State in the regular-season finale for both teams, parlaying a remarkable 86-point first half into a shocking win.The loss had no bearing on the playoff seeding for the Warriors (57-25). The two-time defending champions enter the postseason as the top seed in the Western Conference and they will open the playoffs against the No. 8 seed, the Los Angeles Clippers, who defeated the Utah Jazz, 143-137, in overtime Wednesday.The win allowed the Grizzlies (33-49) to avoid what would have been a second straight season of at least 50 losses. Rookie Jevon Carter scored 19 of his career-high 32 points in the first half, when the Grizzlies ran off to an 86-68 lead.76ers 125, Bulls 109Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points and Boban Marjanovic added 18 to lift host Philadelphia over Chicago.T.J. McConnell tied his career-high with 18, Zhaire Smith contributed 17 and Greg Monroe had 14 for the Sixers, who completed their regular season with a 51-31 record and the No. 3 playoff seed in the Eastern Conference. The Sixers finished 31-10 at home.The Sixers were extremely short-handed as numerous key players were held out for precautionary reasons as the playoffs are about to begin. All-Star center Joel Embiid, All-Star guard Ben Simmons, guard JJ Redick, forward Jimmy Butler and forward Tobias Harris were all held out.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — At the midpoint of the N.B.A. season, Kyle Kuzma was daydreaming about something the Lakers have yet to unveil: a small-ball lineup with LeBron James manning the center position. The Lakers already generate the third-highest pace in the league using a traditional lineup, so imagine the possibilities.“That small-ball lineup is going to be huge for us,” Kuzma told reporters on Wednesday morning, “especially in the playoffs when everybody’s going to be going small.”Kuzma, a second-year forward, was making two assumptions: first, that the Lakers would make the playoffs, and second, that they would have enough time to experiment with the lineup and refine it ahead of a hypothetical trip to the postseason. Not to stamp all over Kuzma’s enthusiasm, but neither of those is a guarantee given the way the Lakers’ hodgepodge season has gone.Coach Luke Walton, to his credit, is taking a more pragmatic approach. Though he entered the season hoping to unleash a smaller lineup that could cause mismatch problems, the Lakers do not have time to mess around with experiments, he said, not right now, not after their recent struggles, not with their continuing rash of injuries and absences.“It’s going to get tougher to do,” Walton said, adding: “As the season gets further and further down the road, those, ‘Hey, let’s try this during the game’ — it’s going to be less and less because we’re in a pretty nasty fight for who gets in and who’s not in. So it will be more about what we’re good at, and try to get better and better at that.”Every team copes with injuries of varying magnitudes, and the Lakers have dealt with their share. On Wednesday night, LeBron James — no longer indestructible, apparently — missed his eighth consecutive game with a strained left groin, but he looked upbeat on the home bench at Staples Center during his team’s 113-100 victory against the Detroit Pistons.“I thought our team showed a lot of growth from, however you want to call it, the post-LeBron injury,” said Walton, whose team improved to 23-19.An important caveat: The Pistons, who have lost 15 of their last 19 games, are not playing stellar basketball. But the LeBron-free Lakers are beginning to look more cohesive and more confident than they did in the days after they lost him to his injury on Dec. 25. They have won two straight, with James’s return date still uncertain.After the Lakers’ medical staff evaluated James on Thursday, the team announced in a statement that he was progressing and had been cleared “to increase on-court functional basketball movements.” He is scheduled to be re-evaluated next Wednesday, but in the meantime the Lakers will play on without him, starting Friday against the Utah Jazz.James’s absence — however long it lasts — may not wind up being the worst thing for the Lakers. His workload over the past decade-plus has been immense, with most of his seasons extending through the N.B.A. finals. He just turned 34. Assuming he returns at full strength, without complications, James could probably benefit from a midseason break.More important, perhaps, has been the opportunity for the team’s lesser lights to operate on their own. The training wheels are off. For a while, it looked bleak. The Lakers lost five of their first six games without James, and it got bad enough that Kobe Bryant logged on to Twitter to defend Walton from an angry mob.“Relax,” Bryant, one the franchise’s most iconic figures, wrote in a post on his account. “Entire squad is damn near out.”At the time, the Lakers were without James, Kuzma and Rajon Rondo. Rondo could miss another two to three weeks after undergoing surgery on his right hand (for the second time this season), but Kuzma, who was sidelined for two games with a back contusion, has since returned.On Monday, with the rust from his injury still apparent, Kuzma shot 4 of 20 from the field in a win against the Dallas Mavericks. On Tuesday, an off day for the Lakers, he went to the practice facility and took 500 shots, Walton said. On Wednesday, Kuzma scored a career-high 41 points in 29 minutes while shooting 16 of 24 from the field.“If you would have told me two years ago, when I was in college, that I would score 40 for the Lakers, I probably wouldn’t have believed you,” Kuzma said. “Kind of crazy.”But this is his reality at age 23, and Walton said he was also pleased with the aggressive play of Lonzo Ball and Brandon Ingram, who are both 21. They are learning as they go, and their curriculum has been more advanced in recent days.At the same time, the Lakers have emerged as a surprisingly respectable defensive team. Entering Thursday, they ranked eighth in the league in overall defensive rating.Asked what he knew about his team at this stage of the season, Walton said: “We know that when we’re at our best, we’re a really good team. We know that we’re a team that can hang our hat on playing defense and getting stops. We’re good when we get out and run. LeBron James is really good.”But really, Walton said, there are probably more unknowns than knowns with this group. On only a handful of occasions has he had close to a full roster at his disposal. The rest of the league will be interested to see what the Lakers look like when he finally does.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — On Thursday morning, in the middle of a six-game road trip that had produced its share of duds, Knicks Coach David Fizdale started practice by gathering his players for an announcement: Kevin Knox, a first-year forward, had been named the N.B.A.’s Eastern Conference rookie of the month for December.The news was well received by Knox’s teammates. Emmanuel Mudiay and Mario Hezonja rubbed Knox’s head as Frank Ntilikina made a halfhearted attempt to jump on his back. Knox appeared genuinely surprised — and pleased. The award seemed to validate his hard work while offering the Knicks (10-29) a reprieve from a season that was long ago sacrificed to the twin gods of player development and the draft lottery.Such sacrifices, of course, have become a franchise specialty.“I still have a lot of work to do,” Knox said.And so do the Knicks, who arrived to face the Los Angeles Lakers (21-18) at Staples Center on Friday night having lost eight straight.But then, another flicker of joy: The Knicks left with a 119-112 victory that they described as cathartic, even if the Lakers were without LeBron James, Kyle Kuzma and Rajon Rondo, all sidelined with injuries.At this point, the Knicks care little for such technicalities. James L. Dolan, the team owner, was in town for the game and visited the locker room afterward to congratulate the team.“When we win, we celebrate like it’s the Super Bowl,” Fizdale said. “Why not?”The Knicks were right to savor the win: Who knows when the next one will come? They still need to visit the Portland Trail Blazers and the Golden State Warriors before returning to New York on Friday, and one game will neither change the trajectory of their season nor mask their daily challenges.But it was important in its own way.“We’ll try to run with the momentum,” Tim Hardaway Jr. said.The Knicks have an odd roster made up of veterans on expiring contracts and inexperienced players who are still learning the business of pro basketball. And that mix, which is almost a 50-50 split, has caused some problems, Fizdale said, not among players in the locker room — “They like each other,” he said — but in terms of the team’s on-court chemistry.Before the Knicks arrived in Los Angeles, the first half of their road trip featured a 16-point loss to the Milwaukee Bucks, a 32-point loss to the Utah Jazz and a 7-point loss to the Denver Nuggets.“We are so young and we have so many guys in contract years fighting for their lives that I’ve got to get this group to move the ball,” Fizdale said. “The numbers say that when we pass the ball, we win. And when we don’t pass, we lose.”He went on to acknowledge the inevitable “friction” between players who are vying for their next deals (and may feel more urgency to produce) and those who have the luxury of being included in the team’s long-term plan. For the most part, Fizdale has been favoring the young players with promise.“That’s just part of this league, and that’s the juggling act that I have to handle,” Fizdale said. “Am I always going to be right? No. But will I always be upfront and honest about where we are and what we’re doing? Yes.”Enes Kanter, one of the aforementioned veterans who will be a free agent this summer, has gone public with his displeasure over his diminished role. Kanter got an opportunity off the bench against the Lakers and delivered, finishing with 16 points and 15 rebounds.“I don’t want no free money,” Kanter said. “This organization pays me money to go out and play as hard as I can and just fight. So I’m going to give my everything.”Kanter, though, is not the only one to voice frustration. Hardaway, who figures to be a part of the team’s future, has alluded to the toll of losing, to the thankless process of a perpetual rebuild. He does not subscribe to the idea that the Knicks should be tanking games to increase their odds of getting the top pick in the draft lottery.“I’m a competitor,” Hardaway said. “None of us got here by losing ballgames for our respective ball clubs when we were in college or in high school. Everybody was winners. Everybody wanted to win. Just to be in this situation is tough, but it builds character.”One of the bright spots has been the improved play of Knox, who averaged 17.1 points and 6 rebounds while shooting 38.4 percent from 3-point range during December.Against the Lakers, Knox made back-to-back 3-pointers early in the first quarter, then sliced through the lane for a dunk and a 17-point lead. The game was barely six minutes old. James, in a dark blazer, watched with a dour expression from behind the home bench. (He is expected to miss at least another week because of a groin injury.) The Knicks, after giving up their lead, held on late, thanks to some solid defense.Knox finished with 14 points in 37 minutes, which is the sort of workload to which he is becoming accustomed.“We talked about building him into a premier N.B.A. player who can play both ends of the floor,” Fizdale said, “and we’re trying to give him a taste of what that entails. It’s not necessarily the minutes you play, but what you’re doing with those minutes from an effort standpoint, from a competitive standpoint: How many calories are you burning?”For one night, the burn was worth it. The Knicks can only hope it is a sign of things to come.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAt the end of a dizzying frenzy of trades in the N.B.A., featuring 24 deals in one week, Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans stayed put — for now.Yet there was plenty of action to make up for the lack of a Davis trade, with two of the four title hopefuls in the Eastern Conference making significant acquisitions before Thursday afternoon’s trade deadline, intensifying the race at the top of the East after Philadelphia’s big trade earlier this week.In the most significant deadline-day deals, Toronto acquired the former All-Star center Marc Gasol from Memphis, while Milwaukee imported the sharpshooting forward Nikola Mirotic from New Orleans as part of a three-team deal that also involved Detroit.Those moves capped a wild seven-day stretch that began with the Knicks’ blockbuster trade of Kristaps Porzingis to Dallas and also included the 76ers’ acquisition of Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers. Philadelphia’s big swing to land Harris, who joined a starting lineup that already featured Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Jimmy Butler and JJ Redick, seemingly forced the Raptors and Bucks, who entered Thursday as the East’s second- and first-place teams, to make their own moves.Milwaukee, Toronto and Philadelphia, along with the Boston Celtics, are jockeying to become the first LeBron James-less team to represent the East in the N.B.A. Finals since 2010.The Sixers, at fifth in the conference standings, didn’t stop at their Harris trade, though. Shortly before the deadline, they made a surprising deal with the Orlando Magic to send the wayward guard Markelle Fultz — whom they selected with the No. 1 overall pick in the 2017 draft — for the small forward Jonathon Simmons and two future draft picks (one in the first round, one in the second).The Celtics, who entered Thursday in third, came away from trade season simply relieved that Davis had not been traded to the Los Angeles Lakers. After a nervy two weeks, during which the Celtics could merely watch because of an obscure league rule, they will now get an opportunity to make a run at Davis in the off-season — although Davis is said to remain adamantly against signing a long-term contract with the Celtics should they trade for him.The Celtics were ineligible to make in-season trade offers for Davis with Kyrie Irving still on their roster, since both Davis and Irving are currently playing under maximum rookie-scale contract extensions; league rules allow teams to field only one such player.The Lakers, however, were unable to persuade the Pelicans to surrender Davis during the exclusive negotiating window they had to pursue him in the wake of Davis’s Jan. 28 request to be traded. The front offices of Los Angeles and New Orleans had no discussions about Davis on deadline day, according to two people familiar with the talks, after negotiations broke down Tuesday over what the Lakers deemed to be exorbitant demands from New Orleans.Late Thursday, Pelicans General Manager Dell Demps confirmed that Davis would continue playing for the team rather than be held out to guard against serious injury in advance of the trade sweepstakes that will likely emerge closer to the draft. Davis had not played since Jan. 18 because of a finger injury followed by the team not wanting to risk an injury. Demps confirmed he would be back on the court soon.“Ultimately, Anthony made it clear to us he wants to play and he gives our team the best opportunity to win games,” Demps said in a statement.The Lakers on Thursday were left trying to recover from the instability wrought by their pursuit of Davis as they seek to make the playoffs in James’s first season in Los Angeles. They entered Thursday’s play at 27-27, good for just 10th place in the West, after falling to a humiliating 42-point defeat in Indiana on Tuesday night. The one-sided loss, against the Victor Oladipo-less Pacers, left little doubt that the mounting trade speculation surrounding the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma was taking a toll on the Lakers.When the Lakers couldn’t acquire Davis on Thursday, they did trade the Croatian center Ivica Zubac — who was among the promising young players mentioned as potential parts of a trade for Davis — along with Michael Beasley to the Los Angeles Clippers in a deal for forward Mike Muscala. The move opened a roster spot for the Lakers that will allow them to seriously consider signing the former All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony, but Los Angeles will have plenty of other options on the free-agent market as various veterans become available following the deadline.As the Davis talk cooled on Thursday, much of the focus leading into the deadline centered on the Grizzlies, who wound up trading Gasol but keeping their point guard Mike Conley, who had drawn serious trade interest from the Utah Jazz and Detroit Pistons.Conley, 31, has two seasons, with a combined salary of $66 million, left on his contract after this one, which convinced the Grizzlies that trading him closer to the draft in June might yield a better offer. Gasol, though, can become a free agent at season’s end, so Memphis had to trade him now or risk losing one of the game’s best two-way players without compensation this summer.Charlotte and Memphis engaged in serious trade talks regarding Gasol earlier this week, which prompted the Spaniard, who has only played for the Grizzlies — and who played his high school ball in Memphis after the Grizzlies imported his brother Pau Gasol from Spain — to clean out his locker.But Toronto, perhaps motivated by what the Sixers did and by the Bucks’ move for Mirotic, packaged Jonas Valanciunas, Delon Wright, C.J. Miles and a second-round draft pick in 2024 to add Gasol to a team straining to convince the All-Star forward Kawhi Leonard to make a long-term commitment when he becomes a free agent July 1.The Bucks, like Toronto, managed to upgrade their roster without surrendering a first-round pick. By expanding a Thon Maker-for-Stanley Johnson trade it had hashed out earlier this week into a three-team deal, Milwaukee landed Mirotic for the primary cost of four second-round draft picks, which were sent to the Pelicans, who also came away with Johnson and the veteran Jason Smith.The Knicks did not make another deal, one week removed from the Porzingis blockbuster that got the trade madness started, but they did set two veterans free to find deals on the postseason market. The outspoken forward Enes Kanter was waived, as was the newly acquired Wes Matthews — with Matthews immediately coming to terms with Indiana to join the Pacers after he clears waivers.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyA freakish injury to Duke’s Zion Williamson, college basketball’s best and most prominent player, only seconds into a game on Wednesday night has instantaneously renewed a debate about the contradictions of the sport’s economic foundation, shining a harsh new light on the N.C.A.A.’s policy of amateurism and the influence of billion-dollar shoe companies.It also raised an important question: Should Williamson ever suit up for another college game?Fans were asking the question. An N.B.A. player was, too, even before Duke announced that Williamson had sprained his right knee in the fall.“It’s a legitimate question,” said Ramogi Huma, the founder and president of the College Athletes Players Association, an advocate for players’ rights.In the first minute of top-ranked Duke’s game against its archrival, eighth-ranked North Carolina, Williamson, a 6-foot-7, 285-pound forward whose game is a blend of quickness and power, pivoted with the ball near the free-throw line. As he planted a foot to reverse direction, his left sneaker collapsed and tore apart from the sheer torque of the move.Williamson fell backward in a split, grabbing his right knee. He walked off the court, and did not return. Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski said afterward that Williamson had sustained a knee injury, but that the joint was “stable.”Pending further testing, the general sense is that Williamson — and Duke, and Nike, which made the shoe — had avoided the worst. Williamson, widely considered the nation’s best college player, is expected to be available to Duke in time for its conference tournament or the N.C.A.A. tournament, which begins in a month.That is, should Williamson elect to return.Huma cited the example of a top football player who found himself with a more serious injury a few years ago; that player elected to end his college career prematurely, to limit the risk to his professional payday. “To continue to risk his future in an unjust system that doesn’t allow him to be compensated just doesn’t make sense,” Huma said.The math behind the argument against Williamson’s returning is simple. Per N.C.A.A. rules, Duke is not compensating Williamson, an 18-year-old freshman, beyond a scholarship and the related costs of studying at, and playing for, the university.That is how the college sports economy works, even as Duke; its conference, the Atlantic Coast Conference; television networks; and, of course, Nike, the apparel company that sponsors Duke and made the shoe that so spectacularly ripped apart, reap billions of dollars from the efforts and talents of preprofessional athletes like Williamson.As a private university, Duke does not release details of its apparel deals. The university recently extended its current agreement through 2027. North Carolina, 12 miles away, receives about $10 million a year from Nike. Texas, Michigan and Ohio State, which have more prominent football programs than Duke and North Carolina, have Nike deals worth closer to $17 million annually.Tickets to Wednesday night’s game, at Duke, were being offered for more than $2,000 on the secondary market.Williamson, so far, has earned nothing. Partly for this reason, everyone agrees that he is planning to enter this year’s N.B.A. draft, the first for which he is eligible. He is widely expected to be the No. 1 overall pick and receive a starting contract that would net him tens of millions of dollars. Even before that — but only after his college career is over — the telegenic Williamson, known since high school for his thunderous dunks, will be free to sign million-dollar endorsement deals.The only thing that could halt these inevitabilities would be a serious injury that substantially lowered his draft value. While there is insurance for this kind of event, it rarely pays out and most likely could never account for the loss of value of Williamson’s future professional contracts.So the argument goes: Why chance it by returning to Duke at all?Even if Williamson has a simple sprain of his medial collateral ligament — a minor injury that in a perfect world might not sideline him for more than a week or two — the risk of returning to a team that does not pay him is borne solely by Williamson.Donovan Mitchell, who played for two years at Louisville before the Utah Jazz selected him in the 2017 N.B.A. draft, suggested as much in a tweet after Williamson was hurt on Wednesday night, writing, “Again let’s remember all the money that went into this game … and these players get none of it … and now Zion gets hurt … something has to change @NCAA.”There are, however, also reasons for Williamson to return to try to help the Blue Devils win their sixth national championship. He may feel loyalty to his teammates, who include several other freshmen likely bound for the N.B.A. this year, or to his coaches. Many young basketball players grow up watching the N.C.A.A. tournament and dream of playing in it themselves; a star turn in March and April would enhance Williamson’s formidable marketability, even if it could do little to raise his draft stock.Still, even college administrators said he should at least consider skipping it.“Every time there’s something like this, there needs to be continual exploration and dialogue about what, if anything, should be done to make it different,” said Dan Beebe, a consultant and former commissioner of the Big 12 Conference.“Do we provide more resources because of all the money coming in and others who are benefiting from it — including coaches, athletic directors, commissioners?” Beebe added. “But then you get into really complex questions that need to be asked about how far do you go with that?”In football, a more injury-prone sport, there have been recent examples of players skipping season-ending bowl games before they enter the N.F.L. draft. In October, Ohio State defensive lineman Nick Bosa, a junior, had surgery after a core muscle injury. While there was no timetable for his return, he announced then that he would withdraw from college to focus on recovering and training for the draft.The questions surrounding Williamson’s options are related to those that an N.C.A.A. commission addressed last season after federal prosecutors revealed extensive corruption in college basketball recruiting. Some of the remedies the commission proposed could eliminate future situations like Williamson’s. For instance, it lobbied the N.B.A. and its players’ union to eliminate the current rule requiring players to be a year removed from high school before playing in the league. The league already plans to create the opportunity for elite players to earn $125,000 salaries in its developmental league rather than attend college.But the commission did not address what many say is the fundamental issue: the gap between the money that players like Williamson generate for universities, leagues, apparel companies and others, and those players’ inability to be compensated.In that light, what might be most shocking about Williamson’s current situation is that something like it did not happen sooner.On Wednesday, hours before the Duke-North Carolina game, Huma was on the phone with a staff member for a Washington state senator who is sponsoring a bill that would permit athletes to be paid and to retain agents.“I literally gave the example: What if Zion Williamson got hurt?” Huma said.“I guarantee you,” he added, “if Duke were free to offer Zion Williamson money for him to play, they would jump at the chance.”An earlier version of this article misstated the listed height and weight of Zion Williamson. He is 6-foot-7 and 285 pounds, not 6-foot-9 and 280 pounds.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
Giannis or Harden for M.V.P.? Who makes the Warriors better: Steph or K.D.? Marc Stein considers these questions and more in the latest edition of his newsletter.Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate for this season’s Most Valuable Player Award.CreditCreditMorry Gash/Associated PressSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to get this newsletter from Marc Stein each week — for free? Sign up here.]As the 2018-19 regular season dribbles to a close, with just two nights and 22 of 1,230 games to go, voters leaguewide are finalizing their year-end award ballots in six major categories. I am no longer one of them, because The New York Times does not permit its reporters to vote for such awards, but it’s still a useful exercise as we take stock of the season to break down each race and who I would have picked.Official selections are due Friday night and there is simply no wrong answer when choosing between Antetokounmpo and Houston’s James Harden for the top spot on the five-man M.V.P. ballot.I have always approached this category by trying to identify who had the best overall season — based on a subjective and imprecise mixture of individual and team success — rather than paying attention to the noise about which player is most widely regarded as the game’s best … or the best two-way player … or any other such designation.So who had the better 2018-19 season? I would go (ever so narrowly) with Giannis. On top of all his individual superlatives, Antetokounmpo has been the face and chief culture-setter in the Bucks’ transformation from 44-win underachiever to the best team in the league (regular-season edition). And his candidacy gets bonus points on our scorecard because Milwaukee, for Eastern Conference supremacy, had to beat out a trio of worthy challengers who were all projected as superior before the season.Harden would be tremendously unlucky to finish second in M.V.P. balloting for the third time in five seasons, but I think that’s where this is headed. He is going to be the first scoring champion (36.1 points per game) to win the scoring title by more than eight points per game since Michael Jordan did over Dominique Wilkins in 1986-87. And I tend to agree with Houston Coach Mike D’Antoni’s contention that Harden is the only player capable of hauling the injury-riddled Rockets to 53 victories out of the 11-14 hole they were in. Harden simply has the misfortune of doing all that damage in a season that belonged to Antetokounmpo and the Bucks.It feels as though I have been writing and tweeting about Doncic and his Atlanta Hawks counterpart Trae Young all season. I suspect I will be writing about the two of them for the next decade-plus. And I’m fine with that.Doncic has had the start-to-finish stronger campaign and continued to look like a franchise player even though the Mavericks steadily increased his Year 1 workload after trading away four-fifths of their starting lineup in February. The trade brought in Kristaps Porzingis and better positions Dallas to build out a supporting cast tailored to their electric European import.Young has delivered even more impressive post-All-Star break production (24.9 points per game and 9.1 assists per game) for a scrappy Hawks team with a passable record of 23-29 since its dismal 6-23 start — and an increasingly bright future.Doncic is going to win the race, but Young overcame his own worrisome launch to make it a competition — and a rivalry that should have staying power — with his second-half surge.Doncic will be remembered as the only rookie in N.B.A. history not named Oscar Robertson to average at least 20 points, 7 rebounds and 5 assists. And Young can take solace in being almost as unfortunate as Harden if he doesn’t win the hardware. It’s quite a compliment when you think about it.Had the Indiana Pacers won 50 games in a season in which Victor Oladipo was healthy enough to play only 36, Nate McMillan would have the résumé to deny the Bucks’ Budenholzer. I’m not sure McMillan is miles off with 47 wins.Doc Rivers of the Los Angeles Clippers, like McMillan, is another victim of bad timing. Rivers hasn’t had a team overachieve like these starless Clippers since his rookie season on the bench with Orlando in 1999-2000 when the Magic won a wholly unexpected 41 games in a season billed as a placeholder before a splashy free-agent summer that ultimately landed Grant Hill and Tracy McGrady in the Magic Kingdom.But Milwaukee’s improvement in Budenholzer’s first season has been so dramatic that I can’t see how he doesn’t win his second Coach of the Year trophy. Perhaps some voters will try to convince themselves that the Bucks would be getting too much love if they vote for both Giannis for M.V.P. and Bud for this honor. But we’re talking about the league’s only 60-win team … and the runaway champions in average point differential for the season (+9.1) … and the only team in the league to rank in the top five in both offensive and defensive efficiency.Antetokounmpo is the biggest reason all that is possible. General Manager Jon Horst is likewise on an impressive run of roster moves. But Budenholzer’s impact has been undeniable.Honorable mentions, along with McMillan and Rivers: Denver’s Mike Malone, Brooklyn’s Kenny Atkinson, Portland’s Terry Stotts, Orlando’s Steve Clifford, Detroit’s Dwane Casey, Golden State’s Steve Kerr and, of course, San Antonio’s Gregg Popovich.Manu Ginobili, who just had his familiar No. 20 retired by the San Antonio Spurs, used to be synonymous with sixth man excellence to me. Ditto for Jamal Crawford.Yet I’d say Williams wears that crown now.The Clippers’ designated scorer won this award last season and stands as a huge favorite to join Crawford as the league’s only three-time winner — despite the challenge he’s getting from teammate Montrezl Harrell.Someone from the Clippers has to win some year-end recognition in light of the Cinderella season they’ve assembled. Williams makes the most sense over a quality field that also features Harrell, Indiana’s Domantas Sabonis, Brooklyn’s Spencer Dinwiddie, New Orleans’ Julius Randle and San Antonio’s Davis Bertans.As the self-proclaimed overseer of the All-Lefty Team, it pains me to snub both D’Angelo Russell of the Nets and Sacramento’s De’Aaron Fox in this category.But I’ve been saying for years that ultra-high former draft picks like Russell and second-year players like Fox are not going to be Most Improved candidates for me. Russell made a tremendous, inspiring leap to All-Star status in Brooklyn this season, but the wow factor partly stems from the fact that he fell so far short of expectations in his first three seasons. Fox, meanwhile, made the sort of Year 1-to-Year 2 leap Sacramento was counting on from someone it billed as a franchise cornerstone.No one expected Siakam to become an impact player at both ends and a borderline All-Star who helped the Raptors to post 57 wins amid the 22 games Kawhi Leonard missed for various reasons of injury and precaution.The nostalgic sap in me, truth be told, wanted to go with Minnesota’s resurgent Derrick Rose. But D-Rose only wound up being healthy enough to appear in 51 games — and as a former M.V.P. he’s more of a Comeback Player of the Year than a Most Improved candidate. The N.B.A.’s specific instructions in this category read as follows: “This award is designed to honor an up-and-coming player who has made a dramatic improvement from the previous season or seasons. It is not intended to be given to a player who has made a ‘comeback.’ ”Siakam, in other words, is perfect. He’s a former No. 27 overall pick who zoomed from role player to foundational player — either beside Leonard or in a post-Kawhi world should Leonard flee Canada in free agency this summer.Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate here, too, as is Oklahoma City’s Paul George and Indiana’s Myles Turner. But the Bucks, at least on this mythical ballot, will have to settle for two of the six top prizes.Three would have been too many. Especially since Utah’s Gobert remains such a dominant deterrent at the rim in his role as the anchor for a defense that officially ranks No. 2 but is essentially on par with Milwaukee’s.[Marc Stein’s newsletter will have the latest on the N.B.A. playoffs, which start Saturday. Sign up here.]You ask; I answer. Every week in this space, I’ll field three questions posed via email at marcstein-newsletter@nytimes.com. (Please include your first and last name, as well as the city you’re writing in from, and make sure the subject line reads “Corner Three.”)Q: Deandre Ayton hasn’t had a terrible rookie year, but it has paled in comparison to what we’ve seen from Luka Doncic and Trae Young. What do you think Ayton needs to improve on — and will he ever match Luka or Trae’s potential? — Henry Roth (Scottsdale, Ariz.)STEIN: It speaks to how far the Suns have faded from prominence that Ayton, as the No. 1 overall pick last June, got so little attention given the numbers he posted (16.3 points and 10.3 rebounds per game).The leaguewide fascination with Doncic and Young is also a factor, as you mentioned, but Ayton was overlooked in the extreme this season. Suns fans should be hoping that the snub helps motivate Ayton in Year 2, because consistency and sustained energy have been issues for him so far.From a technical standpoint, Ayton has to develop into more of a rim protector. With his mobility and athleticism, Phoenix should be able to build a defense around him. He’s not close to elite yet at that end.But it would also be unfair to ignore that Ayton was frequently forced to start alongside two other rookies on a squad that still doesn’t have a starter-level N.B.A. point guard.Q: Dirk Nowitzki hasn’t come out and said he is retiring, but everyone else seems to be saying it. At first I didn’t believe Adam Silver would have put Dirk in the All-Star Game if he didn’t have it on good authority that Dirk would soon retire, but could this actually not be his final year? It looks like Dirk’s ankle has finally recovered from surgery and he’s moving a lot better. Why not play one more season with Luka Doncic and Kristaps Porzingis and try to go out with a playoff berth? — Sharad AcharyaSTEIN: This much I can tell you: Dirk joining Dwyane Wade in the All-Star Game as a so-called “commissioner’s pick” has nothing to do with Nowitzki’s retirement plans. As Dirk stated before, during and after his trip to Charlotte, this was his All-Star swan song no matter what, even if he decided to play next season.I think there have been times since the All-Star break when an encouraged Nowitzki has imagined himself carrying on. He’s been a huge Porzingis fan for years and would naturally love to experience the Doncic/Porzingis tandem. But the reality is that season No. 21 has been a bigger challenge physically than he ever imagined.Is it really worth putting his body through the rigors of yet another nine-month ride? The case against coming back is much stronger than the case for it, which is why you’ve heard the likes of Mark Cuban and Steve Nash give interviews in recent days that make it sound as though the end is near.Q: I’d like to hear your thoughts on how Stephen Curry makes everyone else on the floor better and how that may not necessarily be the case with Kevin Durant? — Michael DortheimerSTEIN: Anyone who believes this must not have watched the last two N.B.A. finals.Steph is Golden State’s No. 1 playmaker and a true revolutionary when it comes to the way his seemingly limitless shooting range bends defenses.But there’s a reason Durant has won back-to-back M.V.P. trophies in the finals. He’s the best finisher in the game and was the best player on the floor on the game’s grandest stage two years in a row.The Warriors are 32-6 in the playoffs since Durant arrived. Who would dare say he doesn’t make all of the other Warriors better just by being out there?Curry has the ball in his hands more, which surely fuels the perception you describe, but Durant commands more double teams than any other Warrior and is a great passer both out of the post and in pick-and-roll situations. There is no shortage of coaches and scouts around the league who regard him as an elite playmaker.This is the fifth time in the Knicks’ 73-season history that they’ve had the league’s worst record. The first three times, there were fewer than 10 teams in the league: 1960-61 (21-58 in an eight-team league), 1962-63 (21-59 in a nine-team league) and 1964-65 (22-58 in a nine-team league). The Knicks were also at the bottom of a 23-team league in 1985-86 at 23-59. At 16-64 so far this season, the Knicks will post the lowest win total in franchise history unless they win at least one of their final two games. Utah’s Rudy Gobert is poised to finish this season with more dunks than anyone else, with 301 dunks to Antetokounmpo’s 279 for Milwaukee. Gobert, though, has played in all 80 of Utah’s games this season. Antetokounmpo has missed 12 of the Bucks’ 81 games to date. Antetokounmpo’s Bucks finished 18th in defensive rating last season. They’ve climbed 17 spots this season to rank No. 1 overall entering Tuesday’s play, allowing 104.8 points per 100 possessions. Jason Terry’s 590 regular-season games alongside Dirk are the most of any teammate in Nowitzki’s 21 seasons in Dallas. J.J. Barea ranks second (and No. 1 among active Mavericks) with 543 regular-season games. The Mavericks say Nowitzki has had 197 teammates.This is the 39th consecutive season, according to the peerless data maintained by Basketball-Reference.com, during which the average height of N.B.A. players is 6-foot-7. The last season that featured a different figure was 1979-80, when the average height of N.B.A. players was 6-foot-6.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
