AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free weekly newsletter here.]Andrew Bogut made his return to the N.B.A. on Wednesday, signing a rest-of-the-season contract to rejoin the Golden State Warriors. The reunion came two years to the day since Bogut, the former No. 1 overall selection in the 2005 draft, sustained a gruesome leg injury.Bogut, 34, spent this season starring for the Sydney Kings in his native Australia and, by his own admission, was convinced “that the N.B.A. door had shut.”But the Warriors began lobbying Bogut to rejoin them in December and made it to March with a roster opening for the 7-foot center, who wasn’t available to be signed until the Kings’ season ended last weekend.“I was kind of blown away,” Bogut said in a telephone interview from Australia. “This wasn’t a situation where I threw my hat in the ring to try to get signed in the N.B.A. I wouldn’t do that.“To come back to the N.B.A., for me, was basically Golden State or nothing. But the fact it was Golden State — it was the kind of opportunity that I would be kicking myself if I didn’t take.”When Bogut signed a two-year deal with Sydney last April, he described it as “my official retirement from the N.B.A.” He proceeded to win Most Valuable Player and Defensive Player of the Year honors in Australia’s National Basketball League, averaging 11.4 points, 11.6 rebounds, 3.4 assists and 2.7 blocks per game.Bogut’s contract with Sydney does not contain an N.B.A. release clause, but he told the Warriors that he would entertain the prospect of rejoining them on a short-term basis after the Australian season — as long as Sydney officials blessed it — should Golden State still have a need.Had the Warriors succeeded in landing a recent free agent from the so-called “buyout” market — such as the swingman Wesley Matthews, who opted to sign with Indiana after securing his release from the Knicks — they would have had no roster room for Bogut.But once it became clear that the Chicago Bulls would refuse to release the veteran center Robin Lopez before March 1, thus missing deadline for Lopez to retain his playoff eligibility with a new team, Golden State intensified its pursuit of Bogut as soon as the Kings were eliminated from the N.B.L. playoffs.As the Warriors continue to try to assimilate the former All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins into their rotation, Bogut said he had “no illusions” about the fact that “some games I’ll play and some games I won’t.” But Bogut insisted he was “happy to be a positive influence on that bench” no matter how much he plays.The Warriors assistant general manager Larry Harris, who was Milwaukee’s general manager in 2005 when the Bucks selected Bogut with the top pick in the draft, made a recent scouting trip to Australia to assess the state of Bogut’s game firsthand and convey the seriousness of Golden State’s interest.Warriors Coach Steve Kerr referred to Bogut as “an insurance policy in the frontcourt.” But Bogut’s defensive know-how and his familiarity with the Warriors’ star trio of Stephen Curry, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green certainly can’t hurt the league’s prohibitive championship favorites in the quest to improve on their woeful standing of 16th in defensive efficiency (109.5 points allowed per 100 possessions.)“I didn’t foresee this happening but I’m excited as hell about it,” Green told Bay Area reporters. He and Bogut quickly meshed as co-anchors of a vaunted Golden State defense in 2014-15, when the Warriors began their five-season run of dominance.After the Warriors won a league-record 73 games in 2015-16 but blew a 3-1 lead to the LeBron James-led Cavaliers in the N.B.A. finals, Bogut and the veteran forward Harrison Barnes were quickly jettisoned to Dallas to create the requisite salary-cap space for Golden State to sign Kevin Durant.Bogut, though, said that returning to the Warriors nearly three years later to play alongside Durant would not “be weird” despite the contentious nature of his departure.“The Golden State Warriors are a very special organization in my heart,” Bogut said. “I had a lot of great years there and won a championship. Even though they moved me, it was understandable to get a guy like Kevin Durant. I probably would have traded myself if I had the same opportunity.”It was Bogut’s longtime agent, David Bauman of Independent Sports and Entertainment, who first pointed out to him that Wednesday’s signing with the Warriors coincided with the two-year anniversary of the fractured tibia in his left leg that Bogut sustained 56 seconds into his Cleveland Cavaliers debut in March 2017.“It’s just funny how the world works sometimes,” Bogut said. “This is an unbelievable opportunity that I’m really thankful for.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaThe Golden State Warriors did more than just fall victim to the biggest comeback in N.B.A. playoff history on Monday night. They also lost DeMarcus Cousins, their starting center, for the foreseeable future — and most likely for the rest of the postseason. A test on Tuesday revealed that he had torn a left quadriceps muscle in the first quarter of the Warriors’ 135-131 loss to the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 2 of their first-round playoff series.Cousins, who had returned this season after tearing his left Achilles’ tendon in January 2018, underwent a magnetic resonance imaging examination that showed the tear, the Warriors announced. The team said Cousins would be out “indefinitely” and begin a course of rehabilitation.Cousins, 28, sustained the injury when he tumbled to the court going for a loose ball early in Monday’s game. He immediately grabbed his left thigh, then limped to the locker room and did not return.It was another devastating blow for Cousins, a four-time N.B.A. All-Star whose career has unraveled because of injuries. Last season, he was in line for a huge new contract when he tore his Achilles’ tendon while playing for the New Orleans Pelicans. He agreed to a modest one-year deal with the Warriors worth $5.3 million.After spending the first half of the season rehabbing, Cousins returned to the court in January and gave the Warriors more depth in their pursuit of a third straight championship. He had been playing well, too, averaging 16.3 points and 8.2 rebounds a game in 30 regular-season appearances.After Cousins departed, the Warriors managed to build a 31-point lead against the Clippers — but then blew it, succumbing to Lou Williams (36 points, 11 assists) and Montrezl Harrell (25 points, 10 rebounds), who helped Los Angeles even the best-of-seven series at a game apiece.RAPTORS 111, MAGIC 82 Kawhi Leonard scored 37 points, Kyle Lowry bounced back from a scoreless playoff opener with 22 and host Toronto routed Orlando on Tuesday night, evening their Eastern Conference first-round series at one win apiece.Pascal Siakam had 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who never trailed and led by as many as 34. Despite playing in foul trouble for much of the night, Leonard finished with a career playoff-high 15 field goals. (AP)NUGGETS 114, SPURS 105 Jamal Murray scored 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter, and host Denver rallied from 19 down to beat San Antonio and tie their Western Conference first-round playoff series at one game apiece.Nikola Jokic had 21 points, 13 rebounds and 8 assists, Gary Harris scored 23 points and Paul Millsap had 20 for Denver. DeMar DeRozan scored a playoff career-high 31 points and LaMarcus Aldridge had 24 points for the Spurs.The Nuggets struggled to make shots deep into the third quarter but found their rhythm in the fourth quarter by hitting nine of their first 11 field goals in the final period to storm into the lead. (FIELD LEVEL MEDIA)Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaHOUSTON — DeMarcus Cousins used to watch soap operas with his grandmother when he was growing up. She would refer to them as her “stories,” he said, and “As the World Turns” was her favorite. Cousins could never fully relate to the absurd drama of his grandmother’s stories until this season, when he joined the Golden State Warriors.“Every episode it was something,” he said. “And that’s what this has turned into.”Cousins is sometimes an innocent bystander. (Consider the midseason beef between Kevin Durant and Draymond Green that stemmed from a late-game meltdown against the Los Angeles Clippers and bled into Durant’s impending free agency.) But sometimes Cousins is involved, even if it is not his choice. He was aware, for example, before Wednesday’s game against the Houston Rockets, that members of the news media and the general public were picking apart his defense and referring to him as a liability.“We all been in this business long enough to know how it goes,” said Cousins, a 6-foot-11 center. “And I’ve been around this team to know how things go around here. You’re always looking for something to make a story. I mean, I could care less. You all got to do your jobs, and I got to do mine.”For all the laments about Cousins’s vulnerability in pick-and-roll defensive situations, there is no denying his offensive impact when he is focused, and he was supremely focused against the Rockets on Wednesday night, collecting 27 points, 8 rebounds and 7 assists in a 106-104 victory that infused the team with some positive vibes.Scoring down low, passing out of the post, setting meaty screens — Cousins does things that the Warriors have seldom featured in their four-plus seasons of dominance.“For as long as we can remember, we haven’t had a guy we can just throw the ball to in the post and work around him,” Stephen Curry said.It is still a process, of course, both for the Warriors, who are working to incorporate another mammoth personality into their fold as they pursue a third straight championship, and for Cousins, a four-time All-Star who spent the first few months of the season building strength and working on his conditioning as he recovered from an Achilles’ tendon tear.Since Cousins made his season debut on Jan. 18, the Warriors are 15-7. But they had lost six of their last 10 games entering Wednesday, and the general mood of the team felt flat. Curry likened it to when Durant joined the Warriors in 2016, and the team spent the first two or three months of the season trying to find its rhythm.“There was a little sensitivity to how everybody was going to get their shots,” Curry said. “At the end of the day, we’re all talented and we all have high basketball I.Q.s, so just let things happen. You don’t have to force anything. We’ve been good at it at times, and not so good at other times. So it’s just a matter of sticking with the program.”After sinking 11 of 16 shots against the Rockets, Cousins acknowledged that it was the best he had felt since he made his return.“I think it’s coming,” Cousins said. “We’ve had stretches where it’s kind of flowing for everybody. But this is a team that’s been together for a while, and they’re used to playing a certain type of way. So for me to just come in — I’m not expecting this team to adjust to me. Obviously, I have to adjust to them.”Durant missed the game with a sprained ankle, which meant that Cousins had more playmaking opportunities than usual. Coach Steve Kerr made some adjustments, too, staggering Cousins and Green for stretches so that each had more room to operate in the middle of the court. Kerr has also been advising his players to pump the brakes in transition.“Sometimes we’ve played a little too fast and shot too many quick shots instead of letting him get down on the block and controlling things,” Kerr said, referring to Cousins. He added: “I think we’ve got to remind ourselves that this is still early in the process. We’re all learning. Me too. I’ve got to learn to use him better.”If Cousins still appears to labor at times (or most of the time) to get overly airborne, his confidence seems fine.“I don’t think anyone can stop me one on one, period,” he said. “So you can put whoever you want on me.”The Warriors and the Rockets have history. In last season’s Western Conference finals, Houston had a 3-2 series lead against Golden State, but Chris Paul injured his hamstring in Game 5. The Rockets lost the final two games of the series without him, and the Warriors went on to successfully defend their N.B.A. championship.Cousins was not involved in that series, but he is a part of the dynamic now — and the Warriors are not quite finished preparing themselves for the postseason. Andrew Bogut, a defense-minded center who last played for Golden State in 2016, is expected to join the team in the coming days after an M.V.P. season with the Sydney Kings of Australia’s National Basketball League. Kerr recently described Bogut as “an insurance policy in the frontcourt.”Yes, the league’s most compelling drama is about to welcome the return of a former cast member. For his part, Cousins said he would continue to focus on the only role he knows.“I just want to play basketball,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Steve Kerr, the coach of the Golden State Warriors, was asked about the concept of inevitability before his team faced the Los Angeles Clippers on Thursday night, which is something that happens during the N.B.A. playoffs. Some questions are more philosophical than others.In this case, the question had to do with the perception shared by many that the Warriors are invincible, that another championship is theirs to lose: What is it like for Kerr to live inside that bubble, knowing full well that his players are capable of making mistakes and even (gasp) failing?Kerr took the opportunity to recall a moment from his childhood in Southern California. When he was 9 years old, he watched his beloved U.C.L.A. Bruins defeat the Kentucky Wildcats for another N.C.A.A. championship, their 10th in 12 years. Coach John Wooden retired after the game. In the nearly half-century since, U.C.L.A. has won one championship — in 1995, when Bob Myers, now the general manager of the Warriors, was a reserve forward.Kerr made sure to note that coincidence. But his larger point was about how sports are unpredictable, which is one of the reasons they are so appealing. Just as no one knew, for example, that the Warriors would make the wrong kind of history by blowing a 31-point lead on Monday, no one knew that they would bounce back on Thursday by obliterating the Clippers, 132-105, in Game 3 of their first-round series.At the same time, no one knows whether the Warriors will go on to win a third straight championship — or how long this team will remain intact. Nothing is inevitable. Everything is uncertain. All dynasties end.“So you don’t worry about expectations,” Kerr said. “Just go out there and play and do your best and see if you can sustain it for a long time. But everything comes to an end, and we’re just trying to keep this going for as long as we can.”The central (if unmentioned) figure in all of this, of course, is Kevin Durant, who has taken on all comers this season in the form of a 7-foot, long-limbed question mark. Bound for free agency this summer, Durant could stay with the Warriors, with whom he has already won two championships — but most expect him to go. Who knows? The agita has sometimes clouded his team’s season.The only sure thing is his basketball genius, which still belongs to the Warriors — for now if not forever — and was on display Thursday night against the Clippers, as he helped lift Golden State to a two-games-to-one lead in the series. Game 4 is Sunday at Staples Center.“Honestly,” Clippers Coach Doc Rivers said, “they dissected us.”It was a resounding statement by the Warriors in the wake of Monday’s fiasco, and no player was more electric or dynamic than Durant, who made all five of his shots in the first quarter — and somehow seemed to improve as the night went on. He finished with 38 points and 7 assists, shooting 14 of 23 from the field.“He came out super aggressive, in kill mode,” the Warriors’ Draymond Green said. “That was all the difference for us.”Durant’s explosion in Game 3 followed a couple of muted efforts for him early in the series. Defended by the Clippers’ Patrick Beverley, a 6-foot-1 guard whom Durant has described in recent days as both a “pit bull” and a “pest,” Durant managed 23 points before he was ejected in Game 1, then struggled even more in Game 2: 21 points and 9 turnovers while shooting just 5 of 8 from the field.At practice this week, Durant had a scrum with the news media that felt more like a doctoral defense. He explained his approach on offense. He talked about strategy and chemistry and shot selection and rhythm. He may have mentioned the officiating once or twice. He also offered a reminder in case anyone had forgotten.“I’m Kevin Durant,” he said. “You know who I am.”After Thursday’s game, Durant said the only difference was that the team had run more plays for him while putting him in better positions to score, often on the low block. Consider: He scored 27 points in the first half but did not make a single 3-pointer. His mentality, he said, never changes. He was not going to force bad shots. He was not going to turn his matchup with Beverley into some sort of me-first duel.“I don’t do that type of stuff,” Durant said. “I just play.”The Warriors have had one bad stretch against the Clippers in this series, and it cost them. But they clearly seem more together and more resilient than they were back in November, when they visited Staples Center and lost to the Clippers in overtime after Green and Durant barked at each other on the bench, then feuded in the locker room. The team wound up suspending Green for a game. Durant, annoyed at questions about free agency, later boycotted the news media for about two weeks. The cracks were showing. Was the dynasty crumbling?The last few days, then, were in some ways a microcosm of their season: The Warriors reassembled the pieces. They recognize how fragile this all is, how rare their opportunity. And if they needed a reminder, they got one in Game 2 when DeMarcus Cousins, their starting center, tore a quadriceps muscle. He will likely miss the rest of the postseason. In his absence, the rest of them will go on — with an understanding that this run will not last forever.“We realize how lucky we are to do this,” said Klay Thompson, their All-Star shooting guard. “Leave it out there. Nothing’s ever guaranteed in the future, so play to win now and do it collectively.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressArkansas has hired Nevada's Eric Musselman as its next men's basketball coach.The 54-year-old Musselman led a dramatic turnaround in Reno, leading the Wolf Pack to three NCAA Tournament in four years after a nine-year absence. Nevada reached the Sweet 16 in 2018, but lost in the first round to Florida this year.The son of a former coach, Musselman has had a well-traveled career. He coached the Sacramento Kings and Golden State Warriors in the NBA, had stints in the CBA and D-League, along with assistant jobs in the NBA and college.Razorbacks athletic director Hunter Yurachek announced Musselman's hiring Sunday on Twitter. Musselman replaces Mike Anderson, who was fired last month after eight seasons.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Stephen Curry was about 25 minutes into a news conference here on Saturday afternoon when a magician who goes by the name Jibrizy sidled up to the dais to do a card trick. Curry, the Golden State Warriors point guard, seemed impressed.“That was nice, big fella,” Curry said. “That was crazy. Y’all see that? Did y’all see that? What’s your name, boss? Jibrizy? Nice to meet you, man. Fire. You’re fire. That’s what’s up.”Lots of weird stuff tends to happen during N.B.A. All-Star weekend, and a cameo by Jibrizy was no exception. But it was also the rare instance when the spotlight left Curry, if only for a moment, in the run-up to the weekend’s flagship game on Sunday.Curry, a six-time All-Star and two-time most valuable player who has already coaxed Golden State to three championships, is used to lots of attention. But he relished his return to Charlotte, where he grew up to become perhaps the greatest shooter of all time — and where he is still revered.“From the time I started playing basketball at 5, right down the street at the recreation center, to now, a lot has happened,” Curry said. “A lot of great things.”Curry was not so great Sunday, but that was not the point. He finished with 17 points, 9 rebounds and 7 assists for Team Giannis in a 178-164 loss to Team LeBron in the All-Star Game, which was a defense-free postscript to a weekend that was a Curry family affair.“Incredibly fond of the family,” Commissioner Adam Silver told reporters. “They seem to be the first family of Charlotte, at least this week.”For much of his trip home, Curry was accompanied by his father, Dell, who spent 10 seasons playing for the Charlotte Hornets, and his mother, Sonya, who drilled a half-court heave after the family helped refurbish a community center. It was probably the family’s splashiest shot of the weekend.“I was surprised,” Stephen Curry said, “because the first four she flung underhand, they didn’t make it to the rim. And then that last one, it just looked good from the moment it left her hand, and I was going, ‘Wham, bam, can of ham! That’s going in!’ ”Curry had less success in Saturday night’s 3-point shootout, where he was joined by his younger brother, Seth, who plays for the Portland Trail Blazers. Stephen Curry made it to the championship round before losing to Joe Harris of the Brooklyn Nets.But Curry had also found time to return to Davidson College, his alma mater, where he clambered into the student section to celebrate an 80-72 victory over St. Joseph’s on Friday night.“The energy in the building was unbelievable,” Curry said. “It’s surreal every time I get to go back there.”The following afternoon, Curry swayed in a sea of reporters (and at least one magician) as he fielded a wide-ranging mix of questions.What did it mean to him to be back in Charlotte? “It’s kind of overwhelming to be honest,” he said. “I’ve got to be like the Energizer bunny.”Could he say something nice to all his fans in the Dominican Republic? “I’ve been there, and I hope to go back,” he said.Did he have a favorite basketball-themed movie? “Probably ‘Love & Basketball,’ ” he said. “I’m a romantic, bro.”During warm-ups for Sunday’s game, Curry mimicked a game of volleyball with Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, posted up a ball boy so that he could take an entry pass from Oklahoma City Thunder point guard Russell Westbrook, made chitchat with bigwigs who were courtside and jacked his share of 30-footers. Most of them went in. All-Star weekend is a circus, but it is still basketball, after all, and Curry has unique skills.He is assembling another spectacular season, even if his work has been overshadowed by fellow All-Stars like James Harden of the Houston Rockets, Paul George of the Thunder and Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo. Curry has been so consistently good for so long now — and his team so dominant — that perhaps some of the novelty has worn off. It is unfair, of course.If his feats feel too familiar, consider his production this season: 28.6 points, 5.2 assists and 5.1 rebounds per game while shooting 48.8 percent from the field and 44.4 percent from 3-point range. He missed 11 games with a groin injury but spent part of that time gluing the Warriors’ locker room back together after Kevin Durant and Draymond Green had a big dust-up.The friction stemmed from Durant’s looming free agency, which has been a steady hum of distraction for the Warriors. But Curry has been a stabilizing force for his team — and even for the league.With a contract that runs through the 2021-22 season, Curry has not had to face pressing questions about his future. He is committed to the Warriors, and the Warriors appear committed to him. He is a throwback in an era dominated by player movement, the current face of which is Anthony Davis, the All-Star center who recently requested a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans. So many other stars face uncertain summers, too: Durant, Kyrie Irving and Kawhi Leonard among them.But Curry has his niche in Northern California, even if his roots are in North Carolina. After Sunday’s game, he described trying to persuade his father to move to the Bay Area, where Curry has settled in with his wife, Ayesha, and their three children.Dell Curry, who is a color commentator for the Hornets, always says no.“This is where home is for him,” Stephen Curry said.And for Stephen Curry, the whereabouts of his father seem to be the only player movements on his mind. Curry said he was unconcerned with free agency this summer and the potential departures of his teammates.“That’s a part of the business,” Curry said. “But the great teams, the great players, they stay in the moment and they understand what’s in front of them.”And so, after taking a weekend to dip into his past, Curry returned to looking ahead. The journey goes on.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Andrew Bogut will start at center for the two-time defending champion Golden State Warriors after DeMarcus Cousins tore his quad in the team's loss to the Los Angeles Clippers on Monday, head coach Steve Kerr said on Wednesday. The towering Australian, who won a championship with Golden State in 2015, rejoined the team as a backup to Cousins in March after a standout season with the Sydney Kings in Australia's National Basketball League (NBL). "I think Bogut will do a great job. He's been great since he's been back," Kerr told reporters during practice ahead of Thursday's Game Three, which comes after the teams split the first two games of the best-of-seven series."This is why we got him -- just in case. We were hoping we wouldn't have any injuries obviously but that was our most vulnerable position," he said."We're lucky to have Andrew." Last month Bogut, 34, said he was happy to just be along for the ride and would be fine just waving a towel and cheering his team mates from the bench. He will, however, see a lot more action than that now that Cousins is sidelined.Kerr could have started 23-year-old big man Kevon Looney or forward Draymond Green at center but said he was confident in Bogut's abilities. Cousins will not need surgery, according to media reports, to repair the left quad muscle, which he tore while running down a lose ball in the first half of the Warriors 135-131 loss to the Clippers in Oakland.Cousins, who in January made his Warriors debut after a torn Achilles tendon kept him off the court for almost a year, is unlikely to return during the playoffs, where Golden State is chasing a fourth NBA championship in five seasons. (Reporting by Rory Carroll; Editing by Toby Davis)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — The NBA has rescinded technical fouls called on Golden State's Kevin Durant and JaMychal Green of the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 3 of their first-round playoff series.The players were called for double technicals early in the third quarter Thursday night at Staples Center as they jawed at each other. The Warriors won 132-105 and lead the series 2-1.Both players protested the call, and the league rescinded it Friday.Durant had been ejected from Game 1 with a double technical and he had accumulated three of the seven fouls allotted before the NBA would issue a one-game suspension until the latest tech was withdrawn.Durant said after the game Thursday that he hoped the foul would be rescinded because he doesn't want to jeopardize the two-time defending champions going forward.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe Philadelphia 76ers made a bold move in the early hours of Wednesday morning to try to seize control of the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference by trading for Tobias Harris, the Los Angeles Clippers’ dynamic forward.In his second trade this season for a player who can become a free agent in July, Philadelphia General Manager Elton Brand surrendered two future first-round picks and two second-round picks in a six-player deal. The clear headliner, though, is Harris, who will join Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, J.J. Redick and Jimmy Butler, November’s acquisition, in what threatens to be the league’s most potent starting lineup outside of Golden State.The cost for Philadelphia was significant. The Sixers gave up their first-round pick in 2020 and an unprotected first-round pick in 2021, which they have from the Miami Heat, along with Wilson Chandler, Mike Muscala and Landry Shamet, a rookie guard. In return, Philadelphia will receive Harris, Boban Marjanovic and Mike Scott.“We are in a unique position to contend now, and we think this trade positions us well for the postseason,” Brand said in a statement.Philadelphia entered Wednesday’s play as the East’s No. 5 seed at 34-20, six games behind Milwaukee (39-13). The Sixers’ twofold challenge now will be establishing a chemistry among its new five-man core in the 28 games left before the playoffs and then re-signing Harris and Butler this summer after making two of this season’s biggest trades to get them.Harris emerged as an All-Star contender for the Clippers this season by averaging 20.9 points and 7.9 rebounds per game. His move to Philadelphia gives the Sixers another much-needed shooter (.496 from the field and .434 from 3-point range) alongside Redick.In making this trade, the Clippers ultimately decided that the draft picks Philadelphia offered were too valuable to pass up as they prepare for a big summer in which they are widely considered to be the league’s strongest threat to lure Kawhi Leonard away from the Toronto Raptors in free agency.The Clippers, at 30-25, have been one of this season’s surprise teams and sit at No. 8 in the Western Conference. But earlier this week, they also were named as one of four teams that Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans is willing to sign with long-term. This deal adds two more potentially enticing trade chips for the Clippers to offer the Pelicans for Davis — who has requested a trade — or to use in pursuit of other elite players.With Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline approaching, teams across the league, especially Philadelphia’s top rivals in the East, are running out of time to make their own moves to try to keep pace.The Boston Celtics, according to numerous reports, have been urging the Pelicans not to trade Davis until after the season, since league rules prevent Boston from trading for Davis while both he and Celtics guard Kyrie Irving are playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. The Toronto Raptors, meanwhile, have reportedly expressed trade interest in the very available Memphis Grizzlies duo of Marc Gasol and Mike Conley.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGeneral manager Vlade Divac and the Sacramento Kings agreed to a four-year contract through the 2022-23 season, according to The Athletic.Financial terms were not announced.Divac, who became GM in early 2015, has built a nucleus of promising young players that includes Marvin Bagley III, Buddy Hield, De'Aaron Fox and Bogdan Bogdanovic.The Kings finished 39-43 this season and in ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. That was the Kings' best record since 2005-06 - the last time they qualified for the playoffs.The Kings started 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt, however, until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final spot.Divac, 51, played 16 seasons in the NBA for the Kings, Los Angeles Lakers and Charlotte Hornets. He will be enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in September.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Milwaukee's Mike Budenholzer has won this season's coach of the year award, presented by the National Basketball Coaches Association.Budenholzer led the Bucks to a league-best 60-22 record this season, leading Milwaukee to its best season in nearly 40 years. Milwaukee was the only team in the league to rank in the top four in both offensive and defensive rating.Budenholzer was one of eight coaches to receive votes from NBA peers this season. The others were Brooklyn's Kenny Atkinson, Denver's Michael Malone, Indiana's Nate McMillan, San Antonio's Gregg Popovich, the Los Angeles Clippers' Doc Rivers, Utah's Quin Snyder and Portland's Terry Stotts.The NBCA award is voted on by the league's 30 head coaches. This is the third season where it was awarded; Mike D'Antoni and Erik Spoelstra shared the award in 2017 and Dwane Casey won it last season.The award is separate from the NBA's coach of the year award. That winner will be announced at the NBA Awards Show in Los Angeles on June 24.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Steve Kerr, the coach of the Golden State Warriors, was asked about the concept of inevitability before his team faced the Los Angeles Clippers on Thursday night, which is something that happens during the N.B.A. playoffs. Some questions are more philosophical than others.In this case, the question had to do with the perception shared by many that the Warriors are invincible, that another championship is theirs to lose: What is it like for Kerr to live inside that bubble, knowing full well that his players are capable of making mistakes and even (gasp) failing?Kerr took the opportunity to recall a moment from his childhood in Southern California. When he was 9 years old, he watched his beloved U.C.L.A. Bruins defeat the Kentucky Wildcats for another N.C.A.A. championship, their 10th in 12 years. Coach John Wooden retired after the game. In the nearly half-century since, U.C.L.A. has won one championship — in 1995, when Bob Myers, now the general manager of the Warriors, was a reserve forward.Kerr made sure to note that coincidence. But his larger point was about how sports are unpredictable, which is one of the reasons they are so appealing. Just as no one knew, for example, that the Warriors would make the wrong kind of history by blowing a 31-point lead on Monday, no one knew that they would bounce back on Thursday by obliterating the Clippers, 132-105, in Game 3 of their first-round series.At the same time, no one knows whether the Warriors will go on to win a third straight championship — or how long this team will remain intact. Nothing is inevitable. Everything is uncertain. All dynasties end.“So you don’t worry about expectations,” Kerr said. “Just go out there and play and do your best and see if you can sustain it for a long time. But everything comes to an end, and we’re just trying to keep this going for as long as we can.”The central (if unmentioned) figure in all of this, of course, is Kevin Durant, who has taken on all comers this season in the form of a 7-foot, long-limbed question mark. Bound for free agency this summer, Durant could stay with the Warriors, with whom he has already won two championships — but most expect him to go. Who knows? The agita has sometimes clouded his team’s season.The only sure thing is his basketball genius, which still belongs to the Warriors — for now if not forever — and was on display Thursday night against the Clippers, as he helped lift Golden State to a two-games-to-one lead in the series. Game 4 is Sunday at Staples Center.“Honestly,” Clippers Coach Doc Rivers said, “they dissected us.”It was a resounding statement by the Warriors in the wake of Monday’s fiasco, and no player was more electric or dynamic than Durant, who made all five of his shots in the first quarter — and somehow seemed to improve as the night went on. He finished with 38 points and 7 assists, shooting 14 of 23 from the field.“He came out super aggressive, in kill mode,” the Warriors’ Draymond Green said. “That was all the difference for us.”Durant’s explosion in Game 3 followed a couple of muted efforts for him early in the series. Defended by the Clippers’ Patrick Beverley, a 6-foot-1 guard whom Durant has described in recent days as both a “pit bull” and a “pest,” Durant managed 23 points before he was ejected in Game 1, then struggled even more in Game 2: 21 points and 9 turnovers while shooting just 5 of 8 from the field.At practice this week, Durant had a scrum with the news media that felt more like a doctoral defense. He explained his approach on offense. He talked about strategy and chemistry and shot selection and rhythm. He may have mentioned the officiating once or twice. He also offered a reminder in case anyone had forgotten.“I’m Kevin Durant,” he said. “You know who I am.”After Thursday’s game, Durant said the only difference was that the team had run more plays for him while putting him in better positions to score, often on the low block. Consider: He scored 27 points in the first half but did not make a single 3-pointer. His mentality, he said, never changes. He was not going to force bad shots. He was not going to turn his matchup with Beverley into some sort of me-first duel.“I don’t do that type of stuff,” Durant said. “I just play.”The Warriors have had one bad stretch against the Clippers in this series, and it cost them. But they clearly seem more together and more resilient than they were back in November, when they visited Staples Center and lost to the Clippers in overtime after Green and Durant barked at each other on the bench, then feuded in the locker room. The team wound up suspending Green for a game. Durant, annoyed at questions about free agency, later boycotted the news media for about two weeks. The cracks were showing. Was the dynasty crumbling?The last few days, then, were in some ways a microcosm of their season: The Warriors reassembled the pieces. They recognize how fragile this all is, how rare their opportunity. And if they needed a reminder, they got one in Game 2 when DeMarcus Cousins, their starting center, tore a quadriceps muscle. He will likely miss the rest of the postseason. In his absence, the rest of them will go on — with an understanding that this run will not last forever.“We realize how lucky we are to do this,” said Klay Thompson, their All-Star shooting guard. “Leave it out there. Nothing’s ever guaranteed in the future, so play to win now and do it collectively.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired Thursday after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said. "On behalf of the entire Kings organization, I want to thank Dave for his contributions to our team and I wish him all the best."Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs.The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final spot.Joerger, 45, has six years of NBA head coaching experience, the first three with Memphis (2013-16) and the next three in Sacramento. His overall coaching record is 245-247 and 98-148 with the Kings.His dismissal came on the same day that Divac and the Kings agreed to a four-year contract through the 2022-23 season, according to The Athletic.Divac, who became GM in early 2015, has built a nucleus of promising young players that includes Marvin Bagley III, Buddy Hield, De'Aaron Fox and Bogdan Bogdanovic.Divac, 51, played 16 seasons in the NBA for the Kings, Los Angeles Lakers and Charlotte Hornets. He will be enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in September.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThere's no LeBron James in these playoffs, so the NBA Finals will have a distinctly new look for the first time in nine years.There's no Tony Parker, for the first time in nearly two decades.There's no Dwyane Wade, and he'll never play a playoff game again.San Antonio is in the postseason for a record-tying 22nd consecutive season. Brooklyn, Denver, Detroit, Orlando and the Los Angeles Clippers got into these playoffs after watching the postseason last year.As always at playoff time, there are some familiar things and some not-so-familiar things. With the postseason set to begin Saturday, here's 10 things to know going into the best time of the NBA year:DRIVE FOR FIVEGolden State is trying to reach the NBA Finals for the fifth consecutive season.If the Warriors get there, they would be the second franchise ever with such a streak — joining only the Boston Celtics, who went there in 10 straight seasons from 1957-66.The Warriors are one of five franchises with a streak of four straight NBA Finals trips: the Los Angeles Lakers did it from 1982-85, the Celtics also did it from 1984-87, the Miami Heat did it from 2011-14 and the Cleveland Cavaliers did it from 2015-18.Golden State is also seeking its seventh championship in franchise history. That would put the Warriors in sole possession of third place on the NBA's most-titles list, behind Boston (17) and the Lakers (16).The Warriors and Chicago are currently tied for third with six championships each.BLOWOUT BUCKSMilwaukee had 45 double-digit wins this season, the most in the NBA.That's a really good omen for the Bucks.Only four teams in NBA history have posted more double-digit wins in a regular season than the Bucks this year. Those clubs are the 1971-72 Los Angeles Lakers (50), the 2016-17 Golden State Warriors (48), the 1970-71 Bucks (47) and the 1995-96 Chicago Bulls (46).All four of those teams went on to win the NBA championship.MR. 3000?Houston's James Harden scored 2,818 points in the regular season, which puts him on the cusp of joining a very elite club.If Harden scores 182 in the playoffs, that will give him a total of 3,000 — and he would be the 10th player in NBA history to score that many in a full season, postseason included. The others: Michael Jordan (10 times), Wilt Chamberlain (five times), Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Rick Barry, Elgin Baylor, Kobe Bryant, Kevin Durant, Bob McAdoo and Shaquille O'Neal.Durant was the last to do it, in 2013-14.LeBron James almost got into the club last year, coming as close as humanly possible — he scored 2,999 points for Cleveland.WELCOME BACKKawhi Leonard's last postseason appearance ended earlier than planned, when he hurt his left ankle while taking a jumper over Golden State's Zaza Pachulia in Game 1 of the 2017 Western Conference finals. Pachulia closed out aggressively, Leonard didn't have space to land safely and he missed the rest of that series.When Leonard left the game, he and San Antonio were up by 23. The Spurs lost that lead, lost the game, lost the series and Leonard never played a postseason second with the Spurs again after that bad landing.Toronto is hoping that Leonard can rekindle his typical postseason magic in his playoff return.Leonard enters these playoffs with a 32-game streak of double-digit postseason outings, averaging 24.1 points in those contests.STEPH RISINGWarriors guard Stephen Curry is on pace to catch Ray Allen and become the NBA's all-time 3-point leader sometime in the 2020-21 season.That stat only takes regular-season games into account. In the postseason, Curry is about to become No. 1.Curry has 378 career postseason 3s, good for No. 2 on the NBA's all-time playoff list. Allen is No. 1, with 385.PLAYOFF CASHThe 16 playoff teams are playing for the Larry O'Brien Trophy, for rings, for a parade ... and for a stake of $21,676,510.That's the amount of this year's NBA Playoff Pool — a record.Every playoff team is assured of some of the pie, which is often used to fund bonuses for players and team staff.So far, all 16 teams are due at least $323,506 each. Most have already clinched much more because finishing in the top six spots in each conference also comes with a bonus. For example, Milwaukee — because it had the best record in the NBA — is already due $1,495,750.Teams get an additional $384,930 for winning a first-round series. Conference finalists get another $638,094. The losing team in the NBA Finals gets another $2,543,681 and the NBA champs get one more payout of $3,838,798.Add it all up, and the Bucks could get $6,355,572 if they win the title. No other team can win that much.HOUSTON, A PROBLEM?Houston is the No. 4 seed in the Western Conference, and faces No. 5 seed Utah in the first round.History suggests the Rockets are in trouble.In each of the last seven seasons, and nine of the last 10, the No. 5 team in the West has beaten the No. 4 team in the first round.Utah has won each of its last five appearances in a 4-versus-5 series. The fifth-seeded Jazz knocked off Oklahoma City in 2018, the Los Angeles Clippers in 2017 and Denver in 2010. The Jazz were seeded No. 4 when they won a 4-versus-5 series in 2007 and 2008 — both of those coming against Houston.BOOGIE'S DEBUTDeMarcus Cousins is No. 1 on a list that nobody wants to lead.By this weekend, he'll be off the list entirely.Cousins has played in 565 regular-season games and zero postseason games. That'll change this weekend when he and Golden State play host to the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 1 of a Western Conference first-round series.No active NBA player has been in more regular-season games without a playoff appearance than Cousins. When he plays for the Warriors this weekend, and when Kyle O'Quinn — currently No. 2 on the list with 443 regular-season games without a postseason minute — plays for Indiana, the new active leader in games played without a postseason appearance will be Brandon Knight.He's played in 421 and is still looking for his first playoff outing.MILESTONE COMINGSometime in the next couple of months, the 4,000th playoff game in NBA history will be played.There have been 3,934 postseason contests so far. Based on the way last season went, the milestone game will come late in the conference-semifinal round or early in the conference-final round.FINALS STARTThis season's NBA Finals start May 30. It'll be the earliest Game 1 of the title series since 1986, when Boston and Houston opened their series on May 26.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Andrew Bogut will start at center for the two-time defending champion Golden State Warriors after DeMarcus Cousins tore his quad in the team's loss to the Los Angeles Clippers on Monday, head coach Steve Kerr said on Wednesday. The towering Australian, who won a championship with Golden State in 2015, rejoined the team as a backup to Cousins in March after a standout season with the Sydney Kings in Australia's National Basketball League (NBL). "I think Bogut will do a great job. He's been great since he's been back," Kerr told reporters during practice ahead of Thursday's Game Three, which comes after the teams split the first two games of the best-of-seven series."This is why we got him -- just in case. We were hoping we wouldn't have any injuries obviously but that was our most vulnerable position," he said."We're lucky to have Andrew." Last month Bogut, 34, said he was happy to just be along for the ride and would be fine just waving a towel and cheering his team mates from the bench. He will, however, see a lot more action than that now that Cousins is sidelined.Kerr could have started 23-year-old big man Kevon Looney or forward Draymond Green at center but said he was confident in Bogut's abilities. Cousins will not need surgery, according to media reports, to repair the left quad muscle, which he tore while running down a lose ball in the first half of the Warriors 135-131 loss to the Clippers in Oakland.Cousins, who in January made his Warriors debut after a torn Achilles tendon kept him off the court for almost a year, is unlikely to return during the playoffs, where Golden State is chasing a fourth NBA championship in five seasons. (Reporting by Rory Carroll; Editing by Toby Davis)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Golden State Warriors fear center DeMarcus Cousins suffered a torn quad during the team's stunning Game 2 loss to the Los Angeles Clippers in Oakland, Calif., ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported late Monday night.Noting that the exact nature of the injury won't be known until an MRI exam is performed Tuesday, Wojnarowski reported "there was evidence that Cousins' noncontact injury ... was serious and season-ending, league sources said."Cousins was injured while trying to run down a loose ball 3 1/2 minutes into the team's eventual 135-131 loss to the Clippers. With the Warriors leading 11-9 and the Clippers possessing the ball just past the half-court line, Cousins deflected a pass and sent it down the court toward the Warriors' bench. Trying to run down the ball before it went out of bounds, Cousins stumbled and went down without being touched, and immediately grabbed his left quad.He got up and soon limped off the court toward the Warriors' locker room. He had two points on a pair of free throws in four official minutes played. He also had two rebounds and an assist.Cousins, 28, had nine points, nine rebounds and four assists in Saturday night's Game 1, his first career playoff game. The Warriors won that game 121-104.Cousins signed a one-year, $5.3 million deal with the Warriors last offseason, then missed the team's first 45 games of the season as he continued to rehab from a ruptured left Achilles tendon he suffered playing for the New Orleans Pelicans on Jan. 26, 2018.In taking the one-year deal with the Warriors, Cousins' plan was to use this season to play his way back into a big free-agent contract this summer. If the quad is indeed torn, Cousins "could be facing several more months of rehab," per Wojnarowski.Picked fifth overall in the 2010 draft, the nine-year veteran is a four-time All-Star with career averages of 21.2 points, 10.9 rebounds. 3.2 assists, 1.4 steals and 1.2 blocks per game.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
Maybe they were never going to win a championship this season, even with LeBron James, but they were not supposed to be this bad. What happened?CreditCreditHarry How/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Marc SteinThe arrival of LeBron James as their latest in a succession of superstar imports was supposed to halt the longest period of suffering in the Los Angeles Lakers’ California history.What James and the Lakers have experienced instead will be remembered as the most disappointing season of James’s career — because it will extend a stubborn playoff drought that has flummoxed the N.B.A.’s most glamorous franchise.Not even James’s presence could prevent a sixth straight missed postseason for the new Lakers, who are mere days from being mathematically eliminated from the playoffs entering Sunday’s visit to Madison Square Garden to face the Knicks. The Lakers, remember, missed the playoffs only four times in their first 53 seasons after relocating from Minneapolis in the 1960-61 season.So much for Hollywood fairy tales.Perhaps expectations for this team were unrealistically high, given the modest quality of James’s supporting cast in Year 1, but his Lakerland debut was never supposed to veer this far off-script for a once-in-a-generation player. What follows is a breakdown of how things fell apart — in six stages.Without warning, on July 1, 2018, the first night of N.B.A. free agency, James announced through a 39-word news release that he was signing a four-year, $154 million contract with the Lakers.Yet the ensuing celebration did not last even 24 hours.On July 2, Golden State boldly swiped some of the Lakers’ thunder by signing the former All-Star big man DeMarcus Cousins to a bargain deal. The Lakers then spent the next week scouring the league for the best players willing to sign one-year contracts — thereby preserving salary-cap flexibility for the summer of 2019 and their planned pursuit of an All-Star sidekick for James.The problem: Magic Johnson and Rob Pelinka, the Lakers’ nascent front-office power duo, signed a slew of nonshooters and, shall we say, mercurial personalities who, as a group, prompted instant second-guessing.The Lakers countered the skepticism by insisting that playmakers and playoff-tested veterans, rather than shooting specialists who could open up space on the floor, would ease LeBron’s burden and potentially even match up well with the mighty Warriors — only to see their signees do little to hush the told-you-so crowd. JaVale McGee, the veteran center, initially exceeded expectations, but the quartet of Rajon Rondo, Lance Stephenson, Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Michael Beasley proved as collectively ineffective as feared.Perhaps we should have known that this was not going to be the usual LeBron season when a fight broke out between a number of Lakers and Houston Rockets in James’s first home game at Staples Center.And the tension never really let up.After just eight games — five of them losses — Johnson summoned Coach Luke Walton for a pointed lecture about the Lakers’ sluggish start. The team’s legendary point-guard-turned-team president never intended for the meeting or any details to leak to the news media, but they promptly did in the no-secrets world of the N.B.A.Johnson immediately tried to play down suggestions that Walton’s job was already in jeopardy, in an interview with The Los Angeles Times, but he would not go further than proclaiming that Walton was “going to finish the season, unless something drastic happens, which it won’t.”Walton is certainly not blameless in the Lakers’ struggles. His lineups, rotations and responsibility for L.A.’s worrisome drop to No. 22 leaguewide in offensive efficiency have routinely been questioned. Management, furthermore, is said to be dismayed by Walton’s refusal to hire a seasoned former head coach as his top assistant — something young coaches (Walton is 38) frequently do.Yet the public nature of the heat Walton took from his own front office made Johnson look impatient and, worse, ramped up the pressure on everyone in the Lakers’ locker room — especially the coach — before they even made it to Thanksgiving. With two years left on a five-year deal, Walton is widely expected to be shoved out of his toasty seat for good at season’s end.What can be classified as the best day of the Lakers’ season, if you only considered the box score, is also bound to be remembered as this season’s low point.The Lakers went to Oakland on Christmas Day for a game in the most anticipated television time slot on the regular-season calendar and throttled the two-time defending champion Warriors. The 127-101 rout capped an 18-9 surge that nudged L.A.’s record to 20-14, good for a promising fourth in the dauntingly deep Western Conference.But James strained his left groin as he stretched to retrieve a loose ball in the third quarter. The Lakers gradually pulled away without him — and James optimistically posted to Twitter the next day about how he “dodged a bullet,” with a #BackInNoTime hashtag — but the injury turned out to be the most serious he had ever sustained.James eventually missed 17 games. No previous injury had ever sidelined him longer than the eight games he lost to a back injury in 2014-15. The Lakers went 6-11 without James and, even accounting for all of their missteps before and after LeBron went down, can rightly point to suddenly losing their star as the biggest blow to the team’s playoff hopes.It remains unclear how #BackInNoTime turned into six weeks on the sideline for James. An inevitability given his age (34)? The byproduct of the Lakers playing at a much faster pace than LeBron’s Cleveland teams? A freak occurrence?Maybe it was a combination of all those factors.What’s clear, though, is that the Lakers’ overall poor health has consistently hurt them.The Lakers, for starters, are 6-15 since Jan. 19, when Lonzo Ball, who had begun to impress James as their starting point guard, sustained a serious ankle injury. And there’s more.Tyson Chandler, the veteran center who made such an impact defensively after joining the team Nov. 6, is dealing with a neck ailment. Josh Hart, the promising second-year guard, has been plagued by tendinitis in his left knee for months. And Brandon Ingram, the swingman with tantalizing potential as a scorer, missed several games with ankle and shoulder problems before he was ruled out for the rest of the season recently with deep venous thrombosis.In real time, only 11 days elapsed between New Orleans forward Anthony Davis’s trade request going public on Jan. 28 and the league’s Feb. 7 trade deadline. But that surely felt like an eternity for the Lakers’ quartet of starlets: Ingram, Ball, Hart and Kyle Kuzma.Especially since the fallout is continuing.From the minute James arrived in Hollywood, after the Lakers made unsuccessful trade runs at Paul George and Kawhi Leonard, it was known that the team would try to trade for Davis — which meant all four of L.A.’s top young players were destined to hear their names in trade speculation. Yet the leaguewide consensus was that Davis would not be made available until at least the 2019 off-season, theoretically giving the starlets an opportunity to build something with James — and maybe even change management’s mind about looking externally for LeBron’s superstar sidekick.But Davis’s trade request changed everything. Rich Paul, LeBron’s agent and longtime friend, became Davis’s agent in September and was widely perceived to have made the trade request on Davis’s behalf to get him to Los Angeles. A seemingly ceaseless stream of leaked Lakers offers thereafter irreparably fractured the locker room, no matter how hard Paul pushed back against that narrative.Nor can the team fully move on from the trade drama, because everyone knows the front office will be back on the phones with New Orleans soon, trying to beat out the Boston Celtics’ package for Davis once the Pelicans start fielding offers for him anew.A Feb. 12 road loss to the Atlanta Hawks was the Lakers’ fourth in five games entering the All-Star break and lowered their record to 28-29. James emerged from the break insisting that he would shift into playoff mode far earlier than normal — “It’s been activated,” LeBron promised — but the Lakers promptly lost road games to the Davis-less Pelicans and the draft-minded Memphis Grizzlies after a hope-building home win against the Houston Rockets.The season effectively ended March 2 in Phoenix, when the Lakers lost to a Suns team in the midst of a 1-18 funk. The defeat meant L.A. had fallen to five of the league’s six teams which currently have sub-.400 winning percentages (Chicago is the only exception). The loss was soon followed by announcements that Ball and Ingram would be held out of the Lakers’ remaining games — and that James’s minutes would be reduced.James was held out of Friday’s game against the Detroit Pistons via the increasingly popular leaguewide synonym for rest — “load management.” LeBron’s load, of course, is about to become lighter in April, May and June than anyone expected.These Lakers were never a lock to reach the playoffs in the loaded West, but the overwhelming majority of league observers and Las Vegas oddsmakers — who largely pegged them as a 48-win team — figured LeBron would find a way. He has instead absorbed criticism for spotty leadership and intermittent engagement with his new team as he prepares for life as a playoff spectator for the first time since his second N.B.A. season (2004-5).Last summer, when he was still preaching patience, Johnson did say that he would need two off-seasons to assemble a true contender even if the Lakers were fortunate enough to land LeBron. “Next summer, if nobody comes and I’m sitting here like this, then it’s a failure,” Magic said at the time.But spring has barely sprung — and next summer is already here for the Lakers and James. Sooner than they ever envisioned, Magic, Pelinka and Jeanie Buss, the Lakers’ owner, are on the clock to make moves that lead to a honeymoon that lasts.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — At the end of a disastrous season in which the Los Angeles Lakers failed to make the playoffs, despite having added LeBron James via free agency, Magic Johnson made the stunning announcement on Tuesday that he was stepping down as the team’s president of basketball operations.Johnson delivered the news at an impromptu news conference before the Lakers’ regular-season finale, against the Portland Trail Blazers, and he said he had not yet informed Jeanie Buss, the team’s controlling owner. In fact, he had told nearly no one before he addressed a mass of hastily assembled reporters.“I couldn’t face her to tell her,” he said, referring to Buss. He later added that he would find her at Staples Center to address her in person.Earvin, I loved working side by side with you. You’ve brought us a long way. We will continue the journey. We love you 💜💛 https://t.co/ofmQl6BtBzLater, the team released a statement, calling Johnson “not only a Lakers icon, but our family.”[Magic Johnson’s biggest moments running the Lakers.]“There is no greater Los Angeles Laker than Earvin Johnson,” the statement read, using Johnson’s formal name. “We are deeply grateful to Magic for all that he has done for our franchise — as a player, an ambassador and an executive.”The statement continued, “As we begin the process of moving forward, we will work in a measured and methodical fashion to make the right moves for the future of our organization.”“Measured” and “methodical” would be an about-face from the way Johnson stepped down. It was a surreal scene as he fielded questions for nearly 45 minutes after he made his announcement, appearing to hold back tears at times, and repeatedly said that he loved Buss like a sister. He then posed for pictures with team employees, former teammates and a local news anchor.“I want to go back to having fun,” Johnson, 59, said. “I want to go back to being who I was before taking on this job, and we’re halfway there with LeBron coming. I think this summer, with that other star coming in — whoever’s going to come in — I think this team is going to be in position to really contend for a championship with the growth of the other young players.”Johnson was named to the post in February 2017 and said at the time that it was “a dream come true.” But on Tuesday he said that he wanted to get back to being a mentor and a businessman, and that he had felt limited in his ability to do those things in his current role.For example, he said he was upset that he could not attend Dwyane Wade’s final game for the Miami Heat on Tuesday night — or congratulate Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder on Twitter for finishing the regular season averaging another triple-double. (Johnson said the league would have considered it “tampering.”)Johnson also said that he had received a phone call last week from the tennis star Serena Williams, asking if he would be an adviser to her.“When Serena called me, wow, that’s who I am,” Johnson said. “I love helping people.”He added: “I like to be free. And then I got a great life outside of this. What am I doing? I got a beautiful life, so I’m going to go back to that beautiful life, and I’m looking forward to it.”But there is palace intrigue at play, too — these are the Lakers, after all — and Johnson strongly indicated that he had been leaning toward firing Coach Luke Walton. Buss, though, is known to think highly of Walton, a former Laker who has been the team’s coach for three seasons, and Johnson suggested that he did not want to go through with it.“I would have to affect someone’s livelihood and their life,” Johnson said, “and I thought about that. That’s not fun for me. That’s not who I am, and then I don’t want to put her in the middle of us, even though she said, ‘Hey, do what you want to do.’ I know she has great love for him.”The Lakers, who have been downtrodden in recent years, are still one of the most glamorous franchises in the league, and Johnson, who helped the Lakers win five championships as a Hall of Fame point guard, remains one of the organization’s most popular figures.Johnson was hired to replace Jim Buss, the brother of Jeanie Buss. Johnson, who had previously been a partial owner of the team as well, worked alongside Rob Pelinka, a former agent, who was brought in as the team’s general manager. (Johnson said that he had not told Pelinka of his decision to step down, either.)While Johnson had some memorable moments at the helm of the Lakers’ operation, the roster that he and Pelinka built around James was widely considered inadequate. After losing to Portland in their finale, the Lakers had a record of 37-45, which assured them of missing the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season. It is the first losing effort by a James-led team since the star forward’s rookie season in 2003-04, when his Cleveland Cavaliers went 35-47.On Tuesday, Johnson preached patience.“I’m excited about the direction,” he said before he headed out the door.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein and Sopan DebIt is one of the oldest warnings in sports: Great athletes, they say, don’t often become great coaches.In the case of Magic Johnson, the legendary former Los Angeles Lakers point guard, that maxim must be amended. For Johnson, neither the front office nor the bench proved to be a winning or even comfortable habitat like the hardwood he used as a launching pad to basketball immortality.Johnson’s forgettable coaching career with the Lakers lasted just 16 games at the close of the 1993-94 season before he unhappily vowed never to return to that occupation. Then this week, Johnson’s two-year reign as the Lakers’ president of basketball operations ended even more ignominiously.He abruptly announced his resignation before the team’s final game of an enormously disappointing season, then revealed that he had told the news media of the decision before he had informed his boss, Jeanie Buss, in order to deny Buss an opportunity to talk him out of it.Johnson, of course, has stunned the world before, with his announcement and early retirement in 1991 because he was found to be H.I.V. positive, followed by his brief return to basketball in 1996. He spent the ensuing two decades constructing a business and entertainment empire replete with a highly successful chain of movie theaters and an ownership stake in the storied Los Angeles Dodgers. But Johnson always insisted that he was, first and foremost, a Laker.Handling his exit in such a haphazard manner has earned Johnson untold amounts of criticism in the days since, given how much the Lakers mean to Southern Californians and how unexpected this news was. Yet he seems prepared to take the hits in exchange for the opportunity to return to his more customary post-playing life “on the other side,” as he described it — forever a Laker but officially unattached to any team.“I like to be free,” Johnson said.But his freedom comes at a steep cost — to Johnson, to the Lakers, to a Hollywood belief in, well, magic.It turns out Magic Johnson, who piloted some of the greatest teams in N.B.A. history, will not be the savior who helps the Lakers escape their longest run of futility.After last summer’s blockbuster signing of LeBron James, Johnson proclaimed the Lakers to be “back” — with the promise of a return to full “back back” status this summer once they acquired at least one superstar sidekick to James. Johnson has instead fled just when the most crucial work was about to commence, with no clear path to bringing that second star to a flailing franchise that last reached the playoffs in 2013 and last won a championship in 2010.When he convened an impromptu news conference Tuesday night, rather than reveal his updated plan to restore the Lakers to title contention and placate a frustrated fan base, Johnson did just the opposite. Describing himself as “happier when I wasn’t the president,” he explained that the conditions and pressures attached to building a championship team around James meant that the real Magic “couldn’t come out.”In a series of rambling interviews with a number of news outlets while the Lakers were in the process of losing their regular-season finale to the Portland Trail Blazers, Johnson spoke of how he had longed to send a congratulatory tweet to Oklahoma City’s Russell Westbrook or to tutor Ben Simmons, the rising Philadelphia 76ers star, without inciting a storm of tampering allegations.“I knew if I stayed in the role,” he said, “I’m giving up a lot of me.”Such disclosures, of course, only served to validate much of the skepticism that greeted Buss’s decision to install Johnson as the new face of the Lakers’ basketball operations in February 2017.Rival front-office executives questioned Johnson’s lack of experience in the modern game and his willingness to embrace the all-encompassing nature of the job from the moment he was named to replace the much-maligned Jim Buss (Jeanie’s brother) and Mitch Kupchak, the longtime Lakers executive. Those questions only rose in volume when Buss named as Magic’s sidekick another front-office neophyte, Rob Pelinka, Kobe Bryant’s polarizing former agent.There were red flags from the start. In taking on his first active role with an N.B.A. team since his second retirement as a player in 1996, Johnson admitted that he had much to learn about navigating the ins and outs of the N.B.A.’s complex salary cap and the rhythms of a job that had evolved so much in his time away.“The main part for me is really learning the other part that I didn’t know, and that is to understand the C.B.A., the salary cap, where we are in terms of the salary cap and who’s a free-agent-to-be,” Johnson told USA Today of the challenges he faced in building a roster and understanding the collective bargaining agreement.Part of the issue might have been that Johnson could never just be a basketball executive. He is a mogul and a cultural force. While other N.B.A. teams primarily lean on decision makers focusing solely on basketball, Johnson seemed to always have his eye on something bigger than the game itself — reaching with his business tentacles to as many corners as possible.Johnson acquired a 4.5 percent share of the Lakers in 1994 before selling his stake in 2010. He even once hosted a syndicated late-night talk show, 1998’s “The Magic Hour.” And he was never just about one game either, acquiring a minority stake in the Dodgers in 2012 and one in the Los Angeles Football Club of Major League Soccer in 2014.Business had clearly been on Johnson’s mind when he took the Lakers’ front-office job in 2017. He told “CBS This Morning” in an interview at the time that he had turned down other offers to run a franchise, including the embattled Knicks, but that he felt it was the right time to rejoin the Lakers.“At this point in my life, you know, I think that I can do it right now because my businesses are running smooth,” Johnson said. “I can turn them over to my executive team that I have.” In that same interview, he said, “I always wanted to be the male Oprah.”Johnson was one of the first athletes to build an empire for himself outside professional sports. He went from whipping behind-the-back passes and being the engine that made the 1980s Showtime Lakers rev to investing in more than 100 Starbucks and Burger King locations, among many other business investments, all while flashing his famed charismatic grin. According to a Basketball Reference estimate, Johnson made about $23 million from N.B.A. salary alone, not including endorsements. Now his net worth is in the hundreds of millions.The business of reviving the Lakers, however, proved beyond him. Buss, as a result, is already facing pressure to rebound from her nostalgic faith in Johnson to pursue a more accomplished executive this time — such as Golden State’s Bob Myers or San Antonio’s R. C. Buford — to plot the team’s recovery from a season soaked in drama and dysfunction.Bizarre as the timing seemed, Johnson insisted to reporters that there were no hidden reasons for leaving other than the desire, as he put it to ESPN’s Rachel Nichols, to stop “letting myself down by not being Magic Johnson.”What’s clear is that walking away when he did spared him from firing Coach Luke Walton — something Walton and his assistant coaches, according to two people with knowledge of the situation who were not authorized to discuss it publicly, had been bracing for this week. Walton’s culpability for the Lakers’ 37-45 record is a matter of debate, given all of this season’s injuries, but Johnson’s desire to make a change had been widely anticipated in league circles for weeks, if not months. Buss’s well-chronicled fondness for Walton is thought to be the only thing that had kept him in place throughout Johnson’s reign.“I would have to affect someone’s livelihood and their life,” Johnson told reporters Tuesday night, seemingly confirming that he was poised to fire Walton. “And I thought about that. That’s not fun for me. That’s not who I am.”There had never been a player like Johnson before he was drafted out of Michigan State as the first pick in the 1979 N.B.A. draft. His court vision, quickness, length and versatility made him a dominant presence and led to his winning three Most Valuable Player Awards and five N.B.A. championships. He became perhaps the defining face of what it means to be a Laker — no easy feat given the deep well of great players who have worn their familiar purple-and-gold jersey.But the fact that Buss has yet to address the news media, beyond a brief statement insisting that the organization still believed “there is no greater Los Angeles Laker than Earvin Johnson,” speaks to the team’s level of shock that he would step down without warning.At a speaking engagement at Chapman University on April 3, Buss acknowledged that the Lakers “haven’t lived up to the brand my father created,” referring to one of the most successful owners in the history of American team sports: Jerry Buss. The signing of James in free agency last summer — for which Johnson is sometimes subjected to claims that his “closer” role was overstated — could not prevent the Lakers from extending their playoff drought to a franchise-worst sixth consecutive season. That figure matches the Knicks for the league’s third-longest active drought behind Sacramento (13 seasons) and Phoenix (nine).Now, the onus falls squarely on Buss to find a successor to repair a roster in need of overhaul.To Johnson’s relief, such issues are no longer his concern. He returns now to a world he may have felt increasingly more comfortable with anyway in recent years: the one outside basketball. As he told The Los Angeles Times in 2008, Johnson hoped to go down in history as a better businessman than an athlete.“That’s my dream,” Johnson said. “And I’m going after it each and every day.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanWith just over 40 seconds left to play in a fairly meaningless game between the playoff-bound Oklahoma City Thunder and the lottery-bound Los Angeles Lakers on Tuesday, Isaac Bonga, a 19-year-old Lakers rookie, badly missed a 15-foot shot. Russell Westbrook, the veteran Thunder guard, snatched the ball out of the air for a defensive rebound.“That’s for Nipsey!” he declared, referring to the rapper Nipsey Hussle, whose fatal shooting over the weekend seemed to shake many N.B.A. players.Westbrook’s presence on the floor in the closing moments of an easy 119-103 home victory for the Thunder would usually have been odd, but on this night the modern master of the triple-double was out there to grab his 20th rebound of the night.Combined with his 20 points and 21 assists, the rebound made Westbrook the second 20-20-20 player in N.B.A. history, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. He joined Wilt Chamberlain, who had 22 points, 25 rebounds and 21 assists on Feb. 2, 1968.Over the last few years, Westbrook’s triple-doubles have come so frequently that it is hard for one to stand out. He is in line for his third consecutive season of averaging a triple-double; Oscar Robertson, the only other player to compile such an average, did it just once. And along the way, Westbrook has set the record for triple-doubles in a season (42 in 2016-17) while recording a stunning 98 of them over a three-season span.It was clear that Westbrook was headed for an interesting night when he recorded 10 assists in the first quarter.Westbrook, a 30-year-old All-Star, had previously reached 20 rebounds in a game just once in his career, and he had topped 20 assists just four times. In his closest previous attempt at a 20-20-20 game, he had 17 points, 18 rebounds and 17 assists in a win over the Lakers during the 2016-17 season. No player other than Westbrook and Chamberlain has had even an 18-18-18 game.In a postgame interview Tuesday, Westbrook described himself as humbled by the experience and brought the conversation back to Hussle.“That wasn’t for me,” Westbrook said of the performance. “That was for my bro — that was for Nipsey. Twenty plus twenty plus twenty.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherSo much for easing back in.In his first game since Christmas to let a groin injury heal, LeBron James played 40 minutes and came an assist short of a triple-double as the Los Angeles Lakers beat the Los Angeles Clippers, 123-120, in overtime on Thursday night.James had missed 17 games, the longest absence of his N.B.A. career, after injuring his groin in the holiday game against the Golden State Warriors. Initially expected to sit out only a few games, James was forced to miss five weeks when the injury lingered.The Lakers were 20-14 at the time of his injury, and even won the Christmas game after he left in the third quarter, but they were 6-11 without him and now stand in the ninth spot in the Western Conference, just out of the playoff picture.The overtime win on Thursday was doubly meaningful because it came against the Clippers, who occupy the eighth spot, currently one game ahead of their in-city rivals.The Lakers were cagey about James’s status for the game, listing him as “doubtful” and not announcing his participation until an hour and a half before game time despite widespread suspicion he would play.There was nothing doubtful about his performance. James finished with 24 points along with 14 rebounds and 9 assists, all game highs.“Being out five weeks, I’m feeling it right now,” James told reporters. “I wish I could click my shoes together right now and be home in my bed.”Lakers Coach Luke Walton told The Los Angeles Times: “Wasn’t looking to play LeBron 40 minutes tonight, but that’s just kind of the way the game played out.”While James’s return performance reinforces the narrative that he is a timeless superstar, making the N.B.A. finals year after year, the injury is a reminder that he is 34, and the window for greatness in Los Angeles will not be open forever.With that in mind, Los Angeles is very interested in acquiring a superstar to complement James, specifically Anthony Davis of the Pelicans, who is interested in moving on. Davis was fined $50,000 this week after his agent, Rich Paul, spoke too freely about trades. Paul was at the Lakers game on Thursday night.Davis has been dealing with an injury of his own, to his finger, which has caused him to miss the last six games.The N.B.A. trade deadline is Thursday.An earlier version of this article misidentified the person who was fined for an N.B.A. agent’s public comments about trades. The player, Anthony Davis, was fined for the remarks, not his agent, Rich Paul.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Vast upheaval within the Los Angeles Lakers organization continued on Friday afternoon when the team announced that Luke Walton was stepping down as coach.The Lakers said in a statement that Walton and the team had “mutually agreed to part ways,” without elaborating. The news came three days after Magic Johnson, the team’s president for basketball operations, made the surprise announcement that he was resigning so he could devote more time to his business interests.Walton, 39, was in his third season with the Lakers, who were expected to vie for a playoff spot after signing LeBron James, a four-time N.B.A. most valuable player, to a four-year, $154 million contract last July. Instead, the Lakers scuffled to a 37-45 record after months of general dysfunction and momentum-sapping injuries. They finished 10th in the Western Conference, well out of playoff position.The N.B.A.’s postseason will start Saturday but without the Lakers, whose postseason drought is now at six seasons. Not even the celebrated addition of James could salvage this one, but he missed significant time with a groin injury. And even when he was on the court, he appeared detached from his teammates as weeks of misery mounted.The Lakers are fraught with problems. When Johnson announced that he was quitting this week, he indicated that he had been planning to fire Walton and that he had the support of Jeanie Buss, the team’s controlling owner, to go forward with the move. But then Johnson resigned — in part, he said, because he could not go through with affecting someone’s “livelihood.”Hours later, after the Lakers had closed out their season with a loss to the Portland Trail Blazers, Walton said that he was looking forward to an eventful summer with the team in hopes of making improvements. Now he is gone, too, though he may not be unemployed for long.The Sacramento Kings immediately responded to Friday’s news by reaching out to Walton’s representatives to arrange an interview for their coaching vacancy, according to two people familiar with Sacramento’s plans who were not authorized to discuss them publicly. Walton is considered the front-runner to replace Dave Joerger, whom the Kings fired this week.Steve Kerr, the coach of the Golden State Warriors, expressed his support for Walton, one of his former assistants.“In this job, as a coach in the N.B.A., you are 100 percent dependent on your circumstances: the strength of your organization, the momentum, unity,” Kerr told reporters in Oakland, Calif. “Everything has to be in good order, because if it’s not, as we have witnessed with the Lakers, then there’s going to be casualties, and usually the coach is the first one.”He added: “They’re losing one of the best humans in the N.B.A. They’re losing a guy who knows the game as well as anybody I’ve met. They’re losing somebody who players believe in.”Walton, the son of the Hall of Fame center Bill Walton, was working with an ill-conceived roster that lacked depth, defense and perimeter shooting. Still, the pressure was on him before the season even began. Once the Lakers got off to a slow start, Johnson chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting, raising speculation that Walton was already on the hot seat.Questions about Walton’s job security persisted throughout the season as he shuffled rotations and lineups, searching for solutions that never materialized.Walton refused to make excuses — publicly, he was a voice of unwavering optimism amid a sea of discontent — but it hardly helped that the Lakers were troubled by injuries, especially at point guard.Then there was James, who had been incredibly durable in his 16-year career. But during the Lakers’ Christmas Day game against the Warriors, he limped off the court with a strained groin and missed the next 17 games. Without him, the Lakers struggled. The hope was that they could regain their footing once he returned, but he was not the cure-all anyone imagined. The Lakers continued to lose with James back in the lineup, even though he said he had “activated” himself for a playoff push.It had become clear by then, however, that the Lakers did not have any discernible chemistry, especially after Johnson and Rob Pelinka, their general manager, tried and failed to acquire the All-Star center Anthony Davis from the New Orleans Pelicans ahead of February’s trade deadline. (It was no coincidence, perhaps, that Davis and James shared an agent, Rich Paul.) The Lakers were willing to send the Pelicans several of their promising young players, including Kyle Kuzma, Brandon Ingram and Lonzo Ball, but were rebuffed in their attempts to swing a blockbuster deal.The result was a team that seemed distracted at best and fractured at worst. Before long, the Lakers were officially eliminated from playoff contention. James did not dress for the final six games of the season.Walton, who spent most of his 10-year N.B.A. playing career with the Lakers, winning two championships as a reserve forward, was hired as their coach in 2016 after two seasons as an assistant with the Warriors. In 2015-16, he began the season as the Warriors’ interim coach while Kerr recovered from debilitating back issues, and guided the team to a 39-4 record, which included a league-record 24 straight wins to start the season.It was certainly an achievement, but the Warriors were coming off a championship and primed to excel. With the Lakers, Walton was trying to build something. Now, that vast project — however onerous — will continue without him.Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel VictorIn his two years as president of basketball operations for the Los Angeles Lakers, Magic Johnson presided over a team as chaotic and playoff-free as the one he’d inherited.The Lakers succeeded in stockpiling talent — including the franchise-altering signing of LeBron James — but failed in putting together complementary pieces, or attracting the second major star Johnson openly said he was chasing.[Magic Johnson stunned the basketball world by suddenly stepping down on Tuesday.]Here’s a look back at Johnson’s high and low points while running the team.In February 2017, four seasons into the team’s longest-ever playoff drought, the Lakers reshuffled their front office by firing the general manager, Mitch Kupchak, and installing Johnson as its president. Less than a month later, Rob Pelinka, a longtime agent, was hired as the general manager, reporting to Johnson.Officially and unofficially, Johnson had remained tied to the team since he retired in 1996. He owned a share of the team from 1994 to 2010, and after that he was an honorary vice president — a title the team took away from him after he violated the league’s tampering rules by tweeting about free agents.Three weeks before he was hired in his new role, he had returned to the Lakers as an adviser to Jeanie Buss, the team’s president and co-owner. She would soon clean house while promoting Johnson.“Everyone associated with the Lakers will now be pulling in the same direction, the direction established by Earvin and myself,” she said, using Johnson’s given name. “We are determined to get back to competing to win N.B.A. championships again.”The first major test of the new regime had decidedly mixed results.Days before the draft, Johnson shed the costly contract of Timofey Mozgov by giving up on D’Angelo Russell, whom the team had selected second over all just two years earlier. In return for the duo, the Brooklyn Nets gave up Brook Lopez and the 27th pick in the draft, which turned into the promising Kyle Kuzma. But Russell has blossomed this year with the Nets, earning an All-Star appearance while leading Brooklyn back to the playoffs.Russell’s departure opened the point guard spot for Lonzo Ball, who has flashed two-way potential but largely fallen short of his lofty expectations as the second pick in the draft. In addition to Kuzma, the Lakers struck gold with Josh Hart, who was selected 30th and has become a core piece.Johnson made no secret of his intent to draw the game’s biggest stars to Los Angeles, with an eye toward what was expected to be a major 2018 off-season. The team largely punted on the 2017 off-season to preserve its salary cap space in 2018, signing Kentavious Caldwell-Pope to a one-year deal.At the 2018 trade deadline, the Lakers shed the contracts of Jordan Clarkson and Larry Nance Jr., opening more cap space. Johnson said the trade indicated the Lakers would have the cap space and the ability to land two star players, either by trade or free agency.“I wouldn’t have made the move if I wasn’t confident,” he said at the time.Signing LeBron James to a long-term contract in 2018 was exactly the kind of result the Lakers had planned for and needed, setting expectations that they would return to the playoffs and compete for a championship. But the free agents the Lakers signed to surround him — Caldwell-Pope, Rajon Rondo, Lance Stephenson, JaVale McGee and Michael Beasley — immediately puzzled some observers.An optimist would have called them playoff-tested veterans. Others saw it differently: A cast of nonshooters and big personalities who would have a questionable fit next to James and the Lakers’ young talent.The hodgepodge crew was assembled partly because the team struck out on its bigger targets. After years of speculation that Paul George would return to his hometown, he instead opted to re-sign with Oklahoma City. The San Antonio Spurs sent Kawhi Leonard east to the Toronto Raptors. DeMarcus Cousins signed a bargain, one-year deal with the Golden State Warriors.Once the season arrived, the Lakers blew it in dramatic fashion, extending their record playoff drought. But they preserved cap space for the 2019 off-season, giving them another chance to add a star.There could be little doubt the Lakers would be interested in Anthony Davis as soon as he became available. James and Davis share an agent, and the Lakers were long believed to be Davis’s most committed suitor.But when the All-Star center made a public trade request in late January, he created a debacle for Johnson and the Lakers. The players in the Lakers’ young core — Ball, Kuzma, Hart and Brandon Ingram, the second overall pick from the 2016 draft — were constantly named in leaked trade offers.The Pelicans made an effort to head off any potential tampering when they announced Davis’s trade request. “We have also requested the League to strictly enforce the tampering rules associated with this transaction,” the team said in a statement.In addition to Davis’s connections to the Lakers, Los Angeles had a well-known history of tampering, dating back to Johnson’s tweets before he took over.Johnson was not very subtle about recruiting George during a 2017 appearance on “Jimmy Kimmel Live,” during which he was asked what he would do if he saw the player socially.“We’re going to say hi because we know each other, you just can’t say, ‘Hey, I want you to come to the Lakers,’ even though I’ll be wink-winking like, ‘You know what that means, right?’ ”The episode earned Johnson a warning from the N.B.A., and the team was later fined $500,000 for what the league deemed impermissible contact between Pelinka and George’s agent.In June 2018, Johnson was fined $50,000 for his comments about Giannis Antetokounmpo after praising the Bucks star.In February, the Sixers’ Ben Simmons — who plays as an oversize point guard, like Johnson did — requested a meeting with Johnson to get playing tips, prompting Johnson to publicly praise the former Rookie of the Year. But the league ultimately determined Johnson had not broken tampering rules.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Hours after Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Los Angeles Lakers’ president of basketball operations, and mere minutes after LeBron James’s first season as the franchise cornerstone ended with a buzzer-beating loss, James left Staples Center on Tuesday night without speaking to reporters, trailed only by security officers and questions about the team’s future.It was not the season anyone envisioned for the Lakers, who had upended the N.B.A. by signing James last summer with the hype and expectation of returning the franchise to its glory years. One of the most storied teams in the league, the Lakers have not won a championship in nine years, and Los Angeles is frustrated, hungry and impatient.Instead, the team collected nearly as many injuries as losses. James, who will miss the N.B.A. playoffs beginning Saturday for the first time in 14 years, watched the final six games of the season from the bench as the team looked to preserve him for next season. His next buzzy stop is a studio lot as the star of “Space Jam 2,” which he has said is set to begin filming this summer.For the Lakers (37-45), all the drama was off the court, right up to the end, with Johnson’s abrupt announcement so out-of-the-blue that he had not even told his boss, the team owner Jeanie Buss, before wading into a gaggle of reporters.[Here is a look at Magic Johnson’s biggest moments as team president.]On Wednesday morning, Johnson, 59, wrote on Twitter that he considers himself a “Laker for life.”He announced in 1991 that he was H.I.V. positive but said Tuesday that he was in good health and it was not a factor in his decision.Johnson had sealed a $154 million, four-year deal for James — two greats fulfilling their needs: Johnson to restore luster to a glamorous team; James to close out his career as a Laker and develop his business and entertainment interests centered on Hollywood.And now they both left Staples Center with a losing record and a team in chaos.In some ways, it was the perfect finale to a season that trafficked in dysfunction.So there was the coach, Luke Walton, saying what losing coaches always say: essentially, wait until next year. His job may have been saved when Johnson quit, but he would not talk about that.“We have a lot of time to work and get better,” Walton said late Tuesday after the Lakers’ loss to the Portland Trail Blazers. “Let’s organize and prioritize what we need to do so we can give ourselves a better chance next season.”It was a wasted season for everyone involved, and James is as polarizing as ever, even in Los Angeles, where as much as fans banked on him, they also retained a degree of skepticism that this was all real.Jonas Never, a prominent Los Angeles-based street artist, found that out the hard way.“Honestly,” Never said in a telephone interview, “Lakers fans are the trickiest.”Last July, he had talked a restaurant owner in Venice Beach into allowing him to paint a mural of James in a Lakers jersey to commemorate his arrival: 75 cans of spray paint in 12 hours for the “King of L.A.”It did not take long for the mural to be vandalized — not just once, but twice in a span of four days. The first time, it was salvageable. Someone had defaced the wall with the words “We Don’t Want You” and “No King,” along with “3-6,” a reference to James’s losing record in the N.B.A. finals. But Never was able to restore the mural. (“A two-minute fix,” he said.)The second time, someone splashed yellow paint all over James’s face, and Never had no choice but to paint over it.“If it had been a car, it would have been totaled,” he said.To be fair, most fans were excited about James. The news media coverage was breathless. And perhaps no member of the ticket-paying public had invested more in LeBron-to-L.A. than Jacob Emrani, a personal injury lawyer from Beverly Hills, Calif., who had purchased space for 40 James-themed billboards in the run-up to free agency.“I definitely didn’t think it was going to be something where we missed the playoffs or thought, ‘What the hell is happening here?’ ” Emrani said in an interview. “I’m disappointed in the breaks we got, but I’m not necessarily disappointed in LeBron. We were in fourth place when he went down.”Emrani was referring to what may have been the season’s turning point: the Lakers’ ill-fated Christmas Day game against the Golden State Warriors, which James himself cited in a recent interview with Spectrum SportsNet, the Lakers’ broadcast partner. The Lakers were playing solid basketball at the time — in fact, they clobbered the Warriors to improve their record to 20-14 — but James injured his groin in the third quarter and wound up missing the next 17 games. The Lakers went into a tailspin without him.“Disappointed in my body,” James told Spectrum SportsNet, adding: “Because I knew exactly where we were at that point. And we just were never able to get back from that.”Once James returned, the team’s front office unsuccessfully tried to engineer a trade for another big star, the New Orleans Pelicans’ Anthony Davis — this, after James had told ESPN that it would be “amazing” to play alongside Davis.The plan appeared to be to essentially trade away the rest of the team. The fallout was clear: Whatever fragile bonds that remained in the home locker room at Staples Center seemed to fray at the seams.For many fans, it was impossible to dissociate James from the failed trade — James and Davis share an agent, Rich Paul — and much of the mess that followed.“Nearly everyone on the roster was involved in those trade rumors,” Never said. “How can you really feel wanted if you think you’re going to be packing your locker the next day?”As the losses mounted, so did the criticisms of James: that he appeared detached from his teammates, that basketball was secondary to his growing interest in his entertainment company, that his body was finally breaking down after so many years of athletic genius, that he was no longer capable of carrying a team to a title.But in the 55 games that James did play this season, he was pretty good. He averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists a game while shooting 51 percent from the field. Besides, a long summer may benefit him after so many extended playoff runs.“The only thing that was hard was that he got hurt,” Walton said late Tuesday night. “It takes time to build a relationship with somebody. But as our relationship grew and I got to see what it was like coaching him, it was great. And I believe if we could have stayed healthy, we would have had a very successful season. He’s an incredible player.”For his part, James told Spectrum SportsNet that he wanted to use the summer to get his body back to “120 percent” ahead of training camp — even as he moonlights on the set of “Space Jam 2.” He has been adamant that his work in entertainment will not interfere with his work on the basketball court.The question is whether one bad season will become two. So much hinges on the summer as the Lakers look to add another star to their roster. (Emrani said he had plans for more billboards, though he declined to say which top-tier free agents he would target.) James has said that he will be as involved in the team’s recruiting efforts as possible.“I’m looking forward to seeing who jumps in the car with me and wants to take this ride to the top,” James said in his interview with Spectrum SportsNet. “I know what I bring to the game. I know my commitment to the game. I’ve never cheated the game, and throughout my career, it’s always given back to me.”Back in Venice Beach, Never painted a new mural during the middle of the N.F.L. season, replacing LeBron James with Derwin James, a safety for the Los Angeles Chargers. The mural has been up for months, Never said, and no one has touched it.An earlier version of this article misstated when LeBron James injured his groin during a game against the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day. It was in the third quarter, not the first half.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — Magic Johnson abruptly quit as the Los Angeles Lakers' president of basketball operations Tuesday night, citing a desire to get back to the simpler life he enjoyed before taking over the franchise just over two years ago.Johnson didn't tell owner Jeanie Buss or general manager Rob Pelinka before he stepped in front of reporters about 90 minutes before the final game of the Lakers' sixth consecutive losing season.Johnson didn't directly tie his decision to the future of coach Luke Walton, who was widely expected to be fired by Johnson soon. But Johnson repeatedly mentioned Buss' affinity for Walton and Johnson's desire not to cause upheaval between them.Johnson also says he's tired of being fined by the NBA for tampering.___Advertisement
On Pro BasketballA move West came with dire warnings, but the reality is setting in that a James-led team might miss the playoffs.The last time LeBron James’s team missed the playoffs was 2004-5, his second year in the N.B.A.CreditCreditMark J. Rebilas/USA Today Sports, via ReutersSupported byBy Marc SteinLeBron James can’t say that he wasn’t warned. Lots of us were crowing in the summer, and pretty loudly so, about what would greet the unquestioned Lord of the Eastern Conference if he dared to defect. Sign with the Los Angeles Lakers if you wish, for the sunnier Hollywood life and all the perks, but brace yourself for the most trying regular season of your career if you decide to go West. That was the gist of the scouting report — which in retrospect could not have been much more prescient. On cue: The most daunting and, yes, disappointing season of James’s career is right here, right now, for the biggest name in basketball.And it appears he will soon have to stomach that it’s going on his ledger in the most permanent ink that he was unable to bring a halt to the longest postseason drought in Lakers history — barring an unforeseen resurrection from a fractured group that sits four and a half games out of a Western Conference playoff berth with 19 games to go.No matter how much culpability you wish to assign James for what is poised to go down as the Lakers’ franchise-record sixth successive trip to the draft lottery, he’s going to have to own this as much as the front-office tandem of Magic Johnson and Rob Pelinka as well as the under-fire coach Luke Walton.The LeBron Way, for years and years, has worked something like this: He inevitably gets most of the credit when his team flourishes; his teammates absorb the bulk of the blame when things unravel. But this is different. This would be the jarring sight of James, fresh off his eighth consecutive finals appearance, actually missing out on the N.B.A. postseason for the first time since his second professional season in 2004-5, when he was just 20.Even though he can rightly point to his recent groin strain as the biggest standings-altering disruption these Lakers have endured, James surely understands that his maiden campaign in Los Angeles is bound to be recorded in many precincts as a failure to make the playoffs that belongs to him.The Lakers are 4-7 since James returned from the groin injury that sidelined him longer (17 consecutive games) than any previous injury in his 16-year career. They have followed up an unsightly road loss to Atlanta in their final game before the All-Star break with harder-to-rationalize road losses to New Orleans, Memphis and Phoenix since the break.After Saturday night’s humiliation against a 13-51 Suns team, which dropped the Lakers to 30-33, James’s gang only sports a 1.3-percent chance of reaching the postseason, according to Basketball-Reference.com.They also have the league’s eighth-toughest remaining schedule, according to Tankathon.com. We’ll never know if the Lakers, who had risen to a heady fourth in the West at 20-14 when James sustained the groin injury in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State, could have kept building upon that promising start with a healthy LeBron. But we most certainly do know that James’s mere return to the lineup, at 34, wasn’t enough to rescue a roster that has been assailed since conception for its lack of perimeter shooting and its defensive deficiencies. Nor has he been able to galvanize a locker room that was deeply destabilized by the Lakers’ trade pursuit of the New Orleans superstar Anthony Davis, which became all-consuming in late January, and has never recovered. It obviously doesn’t help that James, after missing two key free throws in the final minute Saturday, is also converting a substandard 66.9 percent of his attempts from the line to give his critics more handy fodder.Leaving his home-state Cleveland Cavaliers for the Lakers last July without the accompaniment of a second superstar meant that James, in a far deeper conference, would have little margin for error just to reach the playoffs. When you combine James’s injury absence with the continuing post-Davis malaise and the team’s declining ball movement since Lonzo Ball (ankle) was sidelined six weeks ago, it adds up rather quickly to a margin that is long gone.The calls for Walton’s dismissal, as they were in January, remain nonsensical. A coaching change now, much like New Orleans’s decision to fire General Manager Dell Demps shortly after the trade deadline, would have no discernible effect on the Lakers’ short-term prospects beyond providing their frustrated fans with a “See? We did something” sacrifice.The prevailing assumption in league coaching circles remains that Walton will almost certainly be dismissed after the season, followed by the Lakers resuming their trade quest for Davis. But denying Walton an opportunity to at finish out a season wrought with drama and distraction since James’s first dribble in purple and gold would be cruel and needless. Changes are coming, though. It’s an open secret that a big off-season reset looms in Lakerland. James always knew that his new club would not be in the title mix until his second campaign as a Laker, but his patience predictably faded quickly — one more reason desperation has become so palpable around this team. Many of us know-it-alls in the news media indeed wrote in our preseason forecasts that the playoffs were no certainty for these Lakers, as constructed, but very few of us were actually willing to outright predict that they would miss out. Reason being: It’s not very smart to bet against LeBron Raymone James.Yet we’ve suddenly reached that unprecedented juncture where it would be wholly irresponsible to advise you that James can extricate himself from this jam just because he’s LeBron. Whether it’s the lingering effects from his groin injury, or his own unmistakably waning spirit in the face of increasingly bleak odds, James has been lacking the zip you associate with his well-chronicled playoff mode — which he assured us on Feb. 21 had been “activated” earlier than usual.I briefly stood beside James on the floor in Charlotte, N.C., before the All-Star Game tipped off and bought into the idea a surge was coming when he insisted he was eager to embrace “the challenge” of hauling the Lakers out of their hole.“And I’m getting healthy, too,” James said that night. A mere two weeks later, it’s already time to start imagining the N.B.A.’s first spring without King James after watching him for eight straight Junes — and wondering how on Earth he’s going to cope with not being a part of it.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPHOENIX — John MacLeod, the longtime NBA coach who led the Phoenix Suns to the 1976 NBA Finals, has died. He was 81.MacLeod's son, Matt, confirmed his father's death Sunday to The Associated Press. The elder MacLeod fought Alzheimer's disease for more than a decade.MacLeod is the winningest coach in Suns history, going 579-543 in the regular season from 1973-87. He also coached the Dallas Mavericks from 1987-89 and the New York Knicks in 1990-91, finishing his 18-year head coaching career with a 707-657 mark.MacLeod had his most success in Phoenix, capped by the 1975-76 "Sundarella Suns" run to the NBA Finals. The Suns lost to Boston in six games in the finals, with the Celtics' triple-overtime victory in Game 5 at Boston Garden regarded as one of the greatest games ever."His passion for the game was matched only by his endearing personality, humility and class, a man who was loved by everyone that had the pleasure of interacting with him," the Suns said in a statement. "Coach MacLeod was a winner in every sense and will be dearly missed by our entire Phoenix Suns family."His Phoenix teams made nine playoff appearances, also reaching the Western Conference finals in 1979 and 1984. He had a franchise- record 37 playoff victories, and was placed in the Phoenix Suns Ring of Honor in 2012.MacLeod also worked as an assistant with Phoenix, Denver and Golden State, ending his coaching career with the Warriors in 2006. He was a college head coach at Oklahoma from 1967-73 and Notre Dame from 1991-99, with son Matt a member of the Fighting Irish squad in his father's last two seasons. MacLeod starred at Providence High School in Clarksville, Indiana, and in college at Bellarmine.MacLeod also is survived by wife Carol and daughter Kathleen.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherHere’s a fact that is pretty obvious. When the point spread on a game is big, the favorite usually wins.In the 39 N.B.A. games since 2003 with a spread of 18 or higher, the favorite won them all, according to the Teamrankings.com database.It wasn’t quite an 18-point spread when the Golden State Warriors faced the Phoenix Suns on Sunday night, but it was close. Depending on where you gamble, the Warriors were favored by 16 to 17 points. Games in that range are still won by the favorites 97 percent of the time.Few should have been surprised by the big line on Sunday. The Suns are bad, going into the game with a record of 15-52, worse than anyone but the Knicks. And the Warriors are the Warriors. Not only that, but the game was being played at Golden State.The chance of an upset had shrunk from microscopic to infinitesimal at the 2:58 mark of the first quarter when the Warriors led by 16 points. A ho-hum blowout seemed to be in the offing.The Suns won the game.Devin Booker had 37 points and 11 assists in the shocking victory. “We came in, we fought, we were down 16,” forward Kelly Oubre Jr. told The Arizona Republic. “We still fought. We came up with a big win against the best team in the N.B.A.”The Suns are actually on a bit of a roll, having won five of their last seven. Don’t start checking the playoff race though: Those wins came immediately after a franchise-worst 17-game losing streak.And cynical Suns fans don’t have to worry either. The team is still three games away from slipping out of the bottom three, the teams that have an equal chance of nabbing the No. 1 pick in the draft, probably Zion Williamson of Duke.It was the first Suns win over the Warriors since November 2014. That was 18 straight games of futility against Golden State, the longest active losing streak by one team against another.Klay Thompson of the Warriors (10-for-22 for 28 points) had a curious take afterward, pointing a finger at the home fans. “I expect our crowd to be a little more into it,” he said. “At least you could stand up or something when we make a good play, especially at the beginning. We need that energy, especially at this time of year. Its hard to conjure up energy every single night.”The Warriors, who have the third best record in the league but are still the heavy championship favorites, had better get some energy in a hurry. They now go on a four-game road trip with a much tougher lineup of foes, starting with the Houston Rockets and Oklahoma City Thunder. Their top seed in the West — they are currently a game and a half ahead of the Denver Nuggets — could be under threat.The Suns will miss the playoffs for the ninth straight year (the second longest streak after the Kings). But they will always have the night they won as 17-point underdogs. Outright.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe UCLA men's basketball program was unable to land yet another highly regarded candidate for its vacant head coaching position when Tennessee's Rick Barnes elected Monday to remain with the Volunteers.Tennessee athletic director Phillip Fulmer released a statement during Monday night's NCAA men's championship game between Virginia and Texas Tech, saying Barnes decided to stay in Knoxville."One of the nation's most tradition-rich college basketball programs identified what we here at Tennessee already knew -- that Rick Barnes is one the game's elite coaches and a program-changer," Fulmer's statement read, in part. "I'm thrilled that he will remain a part of our Tennessee Athletics family."The Volunteers were 31-6 under Barnes this season, reaching a No. 1 ranking and advancing to the South Regional semifinals, where they were defeated 99-94 by Purdue. Barnes was selected the Naismith Coach of the Year on Sunday.UCLA also had interest in Texas Christian's Jamie Dixon, but the school elected to pursue other options last week after reportedly electing to not pay the $8 million buyout of his contract. It is unclear if UCLA will resume its pursuit of Dixon.The Bruins' program is in need of a head coach after Steve Alford was fired on New Year's Eve. The Bruins started 7-6 under Alford and finished with a 17-16 record, with Murry Bartow taking over on an interim basis. UCLA did not advance to the NCAA Tournament for the second time in four years.Other reported coaching candidates of interest to UCLA include Mick Cronin of Cincinnati, Randy Bennett of Saint Mary's, and former Bruins point guard Earl Watson, who was fired as head coach of the Phoenix Suns three games into the 2017-18 season.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Phoenix Suns officially named James Jones as general manager Thursday, giving him control over all basketball operations for the team.The Suns also added Jeff Bower as senior vice president of basketball operations and retained Trevor Bukstein as assistant general manager. Both will report to Jones, the team said in a statement.Jones, 38, who played 14 seasons in the league and won three NBA championships, had served as Phoenix's VP of basketball operations the last two seasons. He shared GM duties this past season with Bukstein."James has demonstrated a remarkable ability to manage the day-to-day efforts of our front office while developing strong relationships with our players, coaches and those across our organization and league," said Suns managing partner Robert Sarver in a statement."Furthermore, he is instilling the same championship culture and standard that he experienced on multiple occasions as a player. I have the utmost confidence in James as the leader of our basketball operations moving forward, and we are aligned in the ultimate goal of one day bringing an NBA championship to Phoenix."The Suns had been without a full-time general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.Phoenix finished the season with a 19-63 record.Bower, 57, was general manager of the Detroit Pistons from 2014-18. He previously served two terms as GM of the Charlotte/New Orleans Hornets from 2001-03 and 2005-10."I'm thrilled to add an individual with Jeff's experience and basketball acumen to our front office," Jones said. "Jeff brings a wealth of knowledge in every facet of basketball operations, is of high character and well respected in league circles, and has a proven track record of influencing organizational success. His expertise in creating and executing a plan will be invaluable as we build our team moving forward."Bukstein has been an assistant GM with the Suns since 2013.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDirk Nowitzki was mum all season on his future plans but after a rousing performance in the Dallas Mavericks' home finale Tuesday, the star finally announced the decision everyone expected."Wow. I'm a little overwhelmed, as you would think," Nowitzki told the sellout crowd after the Mavericks' 120-109 victory over the Phoenix Suns. "As you guys might expect, this is my last home game."Nowitzki made his much-anticipated retirement announcement after delivering a season-high 30-point performance, with five 3-pointers, against the Suns. The 7-footer scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history (31,540 points) finished the game with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 33 minutes.The 40-year-old Nowitzki, whose playing career will officially end Wednesday night when the Mavs play the San Antonio Spurs, was honored by the appearance of five of his childhood heroes -- Charles Barkley, Larry Bird, Scottie Pippen, Shawn Kemp and fellow German Detlef Schrempf -- for a postgame ceremony that included heartfelt speeches by Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle and owner Mark Cuban."Amazing that my heroes came out here for this game," Nowitzki said. "Thank you guys so much. Love you guys. Grew up watching you and idolizing you guys so this means more than you will ever know."Mark, can't wait to see what you've got for my jersey retirement. I mean, this is a high bar that you set. But as you guys might expect, this is my last home game."Nowitzki's final season didn't actually begin until mid-December thanks to a longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career and averaged 6.6 points in fewer than 15 minutes a game.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted M-V-P! M-V-P! Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2007 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMEMPHIS, Tenn. — Salah Mejri scored a career-high 19 points, including the tying basket in regulation and the first seven points of overtime as the Dallas Mavericks defeated the Memphis Grizzlies 129-127 on Sunday night.Mejri, who had nine rebounds and four blocks, was 7 of 12 from the floor and made a pair of 3-pointers. Trey Burke led the Mavericks with 24 points, 14 in the fourth quarter and overtime. Justin Jackson and Dorian Finney-Smith added 16 points apiece, and Finney-Smith grabbed 12 rebounds.Delon Wright had his second consecutive triple-double with 20 points, 13 rebounds and 12 assists for the Grizzlies. Justin Holiday paced Memphis with a career-high 30 points.Memphis led 112-110 after Ivan Rabb hit one of two free throws with 54.5 seconds left in regulation. After four misses inside by the Mavericks, they pulled even when Mejri scored on a putback with 1.5 seconds remaining.That sent the game to overtime after Memphis couldn't get a shot off before the horn sounded ending regulation.In the extra period, Mejri scored on a pair of dunks and then a 3-pointer to give Dallas an early lead. Memphis tied it but could never go ahead, and the Mavericks made three of four free throws in the final 15 seconds.Wright's 3-point attempt as the horn sounded was short.TIP-INSMavericks: Dirk Nowitzki, who only played in the first half, has appeared in 76 games against the Grizzlies — the most regular-season games against the franchise by any NBA player. He is also second in scoring against the Grizzlies behind Kobe Bryant. . Nowitzki grabbed his 10,000th defensive rebound in the first quarter, becoming the fifth NBA player to reach that milestone. . Dallas rookie Luka Doncic missed his fourth game in the last five with a variety of injuries, most notably a bruised right thigh.Grizzlies: A 3-pointer in the second quarter set a franchise record for 3s in a season with 768. The previous mark of 767 was set in 2016-17. ... Bruno Caboclo had a career-high 17 rebounds. His previous best was 13 on March 27 against Golden State. . Point guard Mike Conley missed his fourth straight game with left ankle soreness.UP NEXTMavericks: Host the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday in their final home game of the season.Grizzlies: Play at Detroit on Tuesday in their last road game.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDALLAS — Dallas Mavericks star Dirk Nowitzki announced his retirement from the NBA after a record 21 seasons with the same franchise, giving the fans the secret he had kept all season after scoring 30 points in his final home game, a 120-109 win over the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday night.The 40-year-old showed his emotion during the game, fighting back tears just before action resumed at the start of the second quarter following a tribute video that detailed his holiday visit to a children's hospital.Nowitzki's final basket in Dallas was his signature one-legged fadeaway from slightly above the free throw line for a 120-108 lead with 1:22 remaining after the Mavericks had let a 30-point halftime cushion get cut to four in the fourth quarter.After speeches from Larry Bird and others he idolized growing up in Germany, Nowitzki told the crowd, "As you guys might expect, this is my last home game."The sellout crowd that followed owner Mark Cuban's orders by showing up early chanted "M-V-P" and "One more year" throughout the game. But after he made the announcement, the chant turned to "Thank you, Dirk" as Cuban started to speak.The 14-time All-Star has one game remaining, Dallas' season finale at San Antonio on Wednesday night."This is obviously super, super emotional," Nowitzki said. "Just too many people to really thank. I put you guys on a helluva ride with a lot of ups and downs, and you guys always stuck with me and supported me, so I appreciate it."Larger-than-life placards of Nowitzki's face were perched on most of the roughly 20,000 seats at American Airlines Center, and a huge mural hung over one of the entrances to the arena.Nowitzki, a few steps slower than in his prime and a role player on a team now led by rookie sensation and fellow European Luka Doncic, was serenaded in every road arena like it was a farewell tour.Last month, he gave the home folks the thrill of passing Wilt Chamberlain to regain sixth on the career scoring list. Nowitzki reached that spot last season, but LeBron James passed him. Nowitzki, who led the Mavericks to their only championship in 2011, has 31,540 points with one game left.The NBA's highest-scoring foreign-born player broke Kobe Bryant's record of 20 seasons with the same franchise, although it took longer than expected because of setbacks following ankle surgery that sidelined Nowitzki for the first 26 games. Bryant retired from the Lakers three years ago.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.He secured his season high in points with a straightaway 3-pointer, his fifth of the game, early in the third quarter for 22 points. That was followed by a rare slam dunk that elicited howls from the crowd and a big smile across Nowitzki's face.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history then drained another jumper for 26 points and an 80-49 Dallas lead. He re-entered the game with three minutes left and hit two more buckets to go 11 of 31 from the floor. He finished with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 32 minutes.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points -- one off his career best -- with 26 coming in the fourth quarter, to get the Suns as close as 105-100 with 4:20 to play.Crawford, 39, became the oldest player ever to score 50-plus points in an NBA game. The old mark was held by Michael Jordan, who was 38 when he scored 51 for the Washington Wizards on Dec. 29, 2001, against the Charlotte Hornets.According to ESPN, Crawford also became the first player to score 50 points for four different franchises (Chicago Bulls, New York Knicks, Golden State Warriors and now Phoenix).The Suns closed out a miserable season, finishing 19-63.A longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery kept Nowitzki out until mid-December. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career, and averaged 6.6 points in less than 15 minutes a game before Tuesday.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted "M-V-P! M-V-P!" Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2006-07 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.The future of the Mavs (33-48), rookie Luka Doncic, also didn't disappoint, notching his eighth triple-double with 21 points, 11 assists and 16 rebounds. He moved into sole possession of third place for most triple-doubles by a rookie.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSpeaking to local media around midday Thursday, Memphis Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said he hadn't talked with team owner Robert Pera yet, but he could make one declaration: Head coach J.B. Bickerstaff would return for a second season. Two hours later, that decision had changed, and several other moves were made.The Grizzlies fired Bickerstaff and demoted Wallace to a scouting role.Memphis also named Jason Wexler as team president with "oversight of both business and basketball operations," the team said in a statement. The Grizzlies promoted Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations, with former VP John Hollinger reassigned to a senior advisory position."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a reenergized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."--Sacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said.Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs. The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final postseason spot in the West.--Larry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed to part ways."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.--Cardiologists have cleared Chicago Bulls forward Lauri Markkanen to resume full basketball activities, the team announced.Markkanen, 21, experienced extreme fatigue and an accelerated heart rate during a game in Toronto on March 26. A battery of tests conducted at Chicago's Rush University Medical Center and Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore determined that dehydration and nutrient deficiency caused his symptoms.The 7-footer missed the rest of the regular season, finishing his second campaign with averages of 18.7 points and 9.0 rebounds in 52 games.--The Phoenix Suns officially named James Jones as general manager, giving him control over all basketball operations for the team.The Suns also added Jeff Bower as senior vice president of basketball operations and retained Trevor Bukstein as assistant general manager. Both will report to Jones, the team announced in a statement.Jones, 38, who played 14 seasons in the league and won three NBA championships, had served as Phoenix's VP of basketball operations the past two seasons. He shared GM duties this past season with Bukstein.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — About five minutes after hearing Luke Walton had been dismissed as coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, Sacramento Kings general manager Vlade Divac called Walton's agent.Finalizing the deal that brought Walton to Sacramento as the Kings new coach didn't take much longer. After getting the call Friday, Walton changed plans to take some time off and flew to Sacramento the following day instead. He agreed to a deal that afternoon and was formally introduced as coach of the Kings on Monday."I knew these types of offers don't come available very often," Walton said. "I love coaching, so having that opportunity with this type of talented team and doing it alongside somebody the way I feel about Vlade made it too good to pass up on."Divac called Walton one of his basketball "soul mates," who embraces the same philosophies in style of play and building culture on a team. The relationship between the two goes back more than a decade to when they were teammates on the Lakers in 2004-05.Divac had wanted to interview Walton for the opening three years ago before hiring Dave Joerger but never got that chance as Walton took the job with the Lakers instead. He wasn't going to miss his chance again."When I believe in something, I just do it that way," Divac said. "No need to waste time. I knew exactly what I was looking for. When he was available, I just gave him a call."Walton takes over a Kings team that's in a much better position than it was three years ago thanks to progress made under Joerger and key acquisitions made by Divac. Joerger was fired Thursday following a 39-43 campaign that was the best record for the franchise in 13 years.Divac made that move because he felt Joerger wasn't the right coach to take the Kings to the next level and the postseason and hopes that Walton can do that.He inherits an up-and-coming team in Sacramento that features several talented young players acquired by Divac: guards De'Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield, forward Marvin Bagley III and center Willie Cauley-Stein. The Kings finished nine games out of a playoff spot after being tied for the Western Conference's eighth seed heading into the final game before the All-Star break."They play fast, they have 3-point shooting, they're young, they're versatile," Walton said. "That's how I want to play. That's how I think the game should be played. All that is right there with this group. There is still room and need for improvement like with almost every team in this league. What this team could be and what I think this team will be is very exciting from a coaching standpoint."Sacramento had its most wins since going 44-38 in 2005-06 during coach Rick Adelman's final season. That ended a run of eight straight playoff berths and Sacramento hasn't been back to the postseason since for the NBA's longest active drought.Joerger was the ninth coach since Adelman was fired in 2006 and none was able to post a winning record or earn a playoff berth. In fact, since moving to Sacramento before the 1985-86 season, the only winning seasons for the Kings came in Adelman's eight years at the helm, highlighted by a trip to the Western Conference final in 2002.Divac is now counting on Walton to be the one who can get the team back to the level it reached under Adelman, when the Kings were a contender for several years and played an entertaining brand of basketball."Maybe sometimes I'm greedy," Divac said. "We had a great season, don't get me wrong. It was a successful season for us but we can do better. I'm just trying to go to the next level."The 39-year-old Walton was 98-148 in three years with Los Angeles in his first full-time head coaching job. He was 37-45 this season and was unable to make the playoffs even once.Walton also has experience as an assistant for Golden State, helping the Warriors win the 2015 title and then leading the team to a 39-4 record, including 24 straight wins to open the 2015-16 season, as interim coach while Steve Kerr was sidelined following complications from a pair of back surgeries.That performance helped him get the job with the Lakers but he was unable to duplicate that success with a roster with far less talent during his first two years and then again this year, even with LeBron James on board."I learned a lot," Walton said. "The best way to learn in my mind is experience and I had a lot of experiences these last three years. I feel much more prepared and advanced as a coach right now that I did three years ago."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — Sacramento's best season in 13 years wasn't enough to save coach Dave Joerger's job.General manager Vlade Divac fired Joerger on Thursday after he helped develop the young Kings into playoff contenders before ultimately falling short in the franchise's 13th straight losing season."I think he did a great job to make that step," Divac said. "But moving forward, I just felt like we had to go a different direction. It's been three years and we made some progress. This year was a good season but I think we could do more, especially after All-Star break."Divac said he had been contemplating the decision to change coaches for a while and ultimately made it after the team stumbled to the finish with a 9-16 record after the All-Star break. The poor stretch run left Sacramento with a 39-43 record, nine games out of a playoff spot after being tied for the eighth spot in the West heading into the final game before the break.The Kings had their most wins since having a 44-38 record in coach Rick Adelman's final season in 2005-06. That ended a run of eight straight playoff berths and Sacramento hasn't been back to the postseason since for the NBA's longest active drought."After the All-Star break, I felt very confident we'd be in the race and we were in the race," Divac said. "Unfortunately, we fell short."Divac made the move official just hours after he was given an extension through the 2022-23 season by owner Vivek Ranadivé. Divac took over as GM before the 2015-16 season and helped bring in some of the key pieces that have led to the improvement this year, including guards Buddy Hield and De'Aaron Fox and big men Marvin Bagley III, Willie Cauley-Stein and Harry Giles.Divac also made a trade this season to acquire forward Harrison Barnes from Dallas in hopes of making a playoff push but the team faltered down the stretch."Vlade has been vital to what we are building here and I am so pleased to announce his extension," Ranadivé said. "Throughout his entire career, Vlade is someone who has always made those around him better, both on and off the court. I look forward to our bright future ahead."Joerger was the ninth coach since Adelman was fired in 2006 with none able to post a winning record or a playoff berth. In fact, since moving to Sacramento before the 1985-86 season, the only winning seasons for the Kings came in Adelman's eight seasons at the helm highlighted by a trip to the Western Conference final in 2002.Divac is now counting on coach No. 10 being the one that can get the team back to the level it had under Adelman, when the Kings were a contender for several years and played an entertaining brand of basketball."The next level is to be a team that is going to be a playoff team and down the road a contender," Divac said. "I think our kids are very talented. We have to believe in them and give them a chance to take advantage of their work and talent."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressArkansas has hired Nevada's Eric Musselman as its next men's basketball coach.The 54-year-old Musselman led a dramatic turnaround in Reno, leading the Wolf Pack to three NCAA Tournament in four years after a nine-year absence. Nevada reached the Sweet 16 in 2018, but lost in the first round to Florida this year.The son of a former coach, Musselman has had a well-traveled career. He coached the Sacramento Kings and Golden State Warriors in the NBA, had stints in the CBA and D-League, along with assistant jobs in the NBA and college.Razorbacks athletic director Hunter Yurachek announced Musselman's hiring Sunday on Twitter. Musselman replaces Mike Anderson, who was fired last month after eight seasons.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGeneral manager Vlade Divac and the Sacramento Kings agreed to a four-year contract through the 2022-23 season, according to The Athletic.Financial terms were not announced.Divac, who became GM in early 2015, has built a nucleus of promising young players that includes Marvin Bagley III, Buddy Hield, De'Aaron Fox and Bogdan Bogdanovic.The Kings finished 39-43 this season and in ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. That was the Kings' best record since 2005-06 - the last time they qualified for the playoffs.The Kings started 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt, however, until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final spot.Divac, 51, played 16 seasons in the NBA for the Kings, Los Angeles Lakers and Charlotte Hornets. He will be enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in September.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired Thursday after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said. "On behalf of the entire Kings organization, I want to thank Dave for his contributions to our team and I wish him all the best."Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs.The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final spot.Joerger, 45, has six years of NBA head coaching experience, the first three with Memphis (2013-16) and the next three in Sacramento. His overall coaching record is 245-247 and 98-148 with the Kings.His dismissal came on the same day that Divac and the Kings agreed to a four-year contract through the 2022-23 season, according to The Athletic.Divac, who became GM in early 2015, has built a nucleus of promising young players that includes Marvin Bagley III, Buddy Hield, De'Aaron Fox and Bogdan Bogdanovic.Divac, 51, played 16 seasons in the NBA for the Kings, Los Angeles Lakers and Charlotte Hornets. He will be enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in September.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Los Angeles Lakers and coach Luke Walton mutually parted ways on Friday, general manager Rob Pelinka announced in a statement.Walton's status had been tenuous, even before Magic Johnson resigned as president of basketball operations on Tuesday. Lakers owner Jeanie Buss was reportedly ready to OK a departure after previously being fully supportive of Walton."We would like to thank Luke for his dedicated service over the last three years," Pelinka said in a statement. "We wish Luke and his family the best of luck moving forward."Walton compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three seasons."I want to thank Jeanie Buss and the Buss family for giving me the opportunity to coach the Lakers," Walton said in a statement. "This franchise and the city will always be special to me and my family."The Lakers went 37-45 this season in a disappointing first campaign of the LeBron James era.Los Angeles was 20-14 when James suffered a groin injury during a Christmas Day win over the Golden State Warriors and the team's fortunes plummeted from there.Walton may not be unemployed for a long period as the Sacramento Kings are reportedly interested in interviewing him for their opening.The Kings went 39-43 this season and fired coach Dave Joerger. They have an impressive young group led by point guard De'Aaron Fox, shooting guard Buddy Hield and power forward Marvin Bagley III.Among the candidates for the Lakers' post is former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and Philadelphia 76ers assistant coach Monty Williams.Lue coached James for parts of three seasons in Cleveland -- including the franchise's 2016 NBA Finals title -- while Williams coached the New Orleans Pelicans for five seasons.Williams also is reported a candidate for the Sacramento job.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersArkansas has hired Eric Musselman to become its next basketball coach.The 54-year-old Musselman, Nevada's coach since 2015, led the Wolf Pack to the NCAA Tournament in three of his four seasons at the Mountain West school. He previously was the head coach of the Golden State Warriors (2002-04) and Sacramento Kings (2006-07). His combined NBA record is 108-138."Eric Musselman is a coach that has had experience at every level of basketball from the NCAA to the NBA," Arkansas athletic director Hunter Yurachek said in a statement Sunday."He was practically born into the game and his passion for basketball is unmistakable. He has been successful throughout his career, including the remarkable job he did in returning the University of Nevada into a perennial NCAA Tournament team. Coach Musselman is high-energy and possesses an extremely high basketball IQ. He has a great attention to detail and has structured his programs to develop players individually while building a successful team."Musselman's record at Nevada was 110-34 overall and 54-18 in the Mountain West.In his first season, 2015-16, he led a team that won nine games the previous season to the CBI Tournament title, followed by the three NCAA Tournament runs.He took the Wolf Pack to the Sweet 16 in 2018, where they lost to tournament darling Loyola-Chicago, 69-68.This season, the Wolf Pack were ranked as high as No. 5 in the AP Top 25 and finished 29-5 (15-3 MW). Their season ended March 21 in the first round of the NCAA Tournament when the seventh-seeded Wolf Pack lost to No. 10 seed Florida, 70-61.Arkansas last month fired Mike Anderson, who was 169-102 in eight seasons with three NCAA Tournament appearances. The Razorbacks went 18-16 this season.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressD’Angelo Russell flashed some postseason magic, playing like the All-Star leader the Nets needed with 26 points, and Caris LeVert scored 23, leading the visiting Nets to a 111-102 victory on Saturday over the Philadelphia 76ers in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.Jimmy Butler scored 36 points and saved the third-seeded Sixers, favored by many to at least reach the East semifinals, from losing by 25. Joel Embiid slogged his way through 24 minutes on a troubled left knee that cost him much of the final month of the regular season and managed 22 points and 15 rebounds. Ben Simmons came up small against Russell, his high school teammate, who scored 19 second-half points.Russell, LeVert and Spencer Dinwiddie gave the Sixers fits off the dribble and buried open looks from 3-point range, and a team that got hot late and just made the playoffs suddenly has the upper hand on the road over a 51-win team stocked with stars.“I think earlier in the season, especially when we were struggling, we’d lose games like that,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said.With Philadelphia behind by 16 late in the fourth quarter, Amir Johnson was caught by television cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone. Johnson, who was inactive for the game, showed Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid the device into a pocket of his warm-up pants.“I just looked down because he said his daughter was extremely sick and he was checking on her,” Embiid said.Johnson issued an apology after the game, and the Sixers fined him an unspecified amount. It was a fitting episode in a game that the Sixers seemed to have phoned in.Russell hit a string of jumpers in the third quarter, never letting the Sixers seriously chip away at the lead. LeVert’s third 3-pointer in the fourth made it a 16-point game, and there was no looking back for one of the biggest wins since the sixth-seeded Nets moved to Brooklyn.Dinwiddie and DeMarre Carroll made consecutive 3-pointers during a 12-0 first-half run. LeVert hit two straight 3s for a 14-point lead, and the Sixers were soundly booed off the court.“We all got to do a better job,” Embiid said. “Us. The fans. We have to bring the fun.”WARRIORS 121, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 38 points and made eight 3-pointers, reaching the highest total in postseason history, and top-seeded Golden State began its quest for a three-peat by winning at home against Los Angeles on a night when tempers flared.Kevin Durant and Patrick Beverley were ejected with 4 minutes 41 seconds to go, 19 seconds after they received double technicals when Durant stripped Beverley and the Clippers guard fell into the scorer’s table.They both became enraged again, and the official Ed Malloy immediately sent them both to the locker room. Durant high-fived fans as he left.Curry was 8 for 12 from beyond the arc, passing Ray Allen (385) for career postseason 3-pointers with 386.MAGIC 104, RAPTORS 101 D. J. Augustin scored 25 points, including the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 3.5 seconds left, and seventh-seeded Orlando won at second-seeded Toronto in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round series.Kawhi Leonard, who led the Raptors with 25 points, got a final shot but missed the rim with his 3-point attempt from the top. The Raptors are now 2-14 in playoff series openers.WALTON TO COACH KINGS One day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers, Luke Walton reached an agreement on a four-year deal to coach the Sacramento Kings, according to a person familiar with the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Lakers’ president this week in part because he did not want to go through with firing Walton, as had been expected around the N.B.A. for weeks. On Friday, Walton and the Lakers mutually agreed to part ways with two seasons left on his contract — with Walton knowing that the Kings, after firing Coach Dave Joerger on Thursday, were eager to hire him.The Lakers have the former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and the Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams at their top of their list to succeed Walton. Lue coached the Lakers’ LeBron James for two and a half seasons in Cleveland.(MARC STEIN)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLuke Walton will become coach of the Sacramento Kings, securing another NBA head coaching job just a day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers following three losing seasons.The 39-year-old Walton was dismissed by the Lakers on Friday after Los Angeles went 37-45. His move to the Kings was confirmed to The Associated Press on Saturday by a person who spoke on condition of anonymity because it hadn't been finalized. A formal announcement from the Kings is expected in the next couple of days.Sacramento general manager Vlade Divac fired Dave Joerger on Thursday after the coach helped develop the young Kings into playoff contenders before ultimately falling short in the franchise's 13th straight losing season.Also Thursday, the Kings extended Divac's contract through the 2022-23 season — and Walton's deal is expected to run those same four years.Sacramento features several talented young players acquired by Divac: guards De'Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield, forward Marvin Bagley III and center Willie Cauley-Stein. The Kings finished 39-43, nine games out of a playoff spot after being tied for the Western Conference's eighth seed heading into the final game before the All-Star break.Sacramento had its most wins since going 44-38 in 2005-06 during coach Rick Adelman's final season. That ended a run of eight straight playoff berths and Sacramento hasn't been back to the postseason since for the NBA's longest active drought.Walton, a former Lakers forward, went 98-148 after getting his first permanent head coaching job with the 16-time NBA champions. The former Golden State top assistant never led the Lakers to the playoffs, not even after the arrival of LeBron James last summer.He certainly has coached some of the game's biggest stars and egos.Many considered him the unofficial Coach of the Year for his guidance of the then-champion Warriors at the start of the 2015-16 season in place of an ailing Steve Kerr. Golden State began with a record 24-0 start and Walton was 39-4 overall before Kerr returned to the bench following complications from a pair of back surgeries.Walton's departure came three days after the Lakers finished with a loss Tuesday to the Trail Blazers and the abrupt resignation of team president Magic Johnson.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLarry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed Thursday to part ways."We have great respect and appreciation for Larry and the job that he did as the head coach of the Cavaliers for nearly the entire 2018-19 campaign," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "He brought professionalism, class and steady leadership both this past season and prior four years."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role. Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers. All of us in Cleveland wish Larry nothing but the best going forward."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first, before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.Drew, 61, previously was head coach of the Atlanta Hawks (2010-13) and Milwaukee Bucks (2013-14), and joined the Cavaliers initially as an assistant coach in 2014, then as the associate head coach. While there, the Cavaliers won their first NBA title during the 2015-16 season. He has been an assistant coach in the NBA for 23 seasons.Drew went 8-1 as fill-in coach in the 2017-18 season while Lue was on a medical leave to deal with anxiety issues."I want to thank Dan Gilbert, Koby Altman, the entire organization, and especially our fans, for what has been a very special and rewarding time here in Cleveland. Koby and I had a good discussion following the season and have both decided that the best decision for each of us was that I would not return to coach the team," said Drew, who was an NBA point guard from 1980-91, playing for the Detroit Pistons, Kansas City/Sacramento Kings, Los Angeles Clippers and Lakers."I am very proud of what we accomplished over the last several years together and will always cherish our Championship. I also want to commend our players this season for the bond that they established, the way they approached their jobs and the hard work and growth they had every day. I am very proud of them and wish them the best as they continue to develop for the future."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
