AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free weekly newsletter here.]Andrew Bogut made his return to the N.B.A. on Wednesday, signing a rest-of-the-season contract to rejoin the Golden State Warriors. The reunion came two years to the day since Bogut, the former No. 1 overall selection in the 2005 draft, sustained a gruesome leg injury.Bogut, 34, spent this season starring for the Sydney Kings in his native Australia and, by his own admission, was convinced “that the N.B.A. door had shut.”But the Warriors began lobbying Bogut to rejoin them in December and made it to March with a roster opening for the 7-foot center, who wasn’t available to be signed until the Kings’ season ended last weekend.“I was kind of blown away,” Bogut said in a telephone interview from Australia. “This wasn’t a situation where I threw my hat in the ring to try to get signed in the N.B.A. I wouldn’t do that.“To come back to the N.B.A., for me, was basically Golden State or nothing. But the fact it was Golden State — it was the kind of opportunity that I would be kicking myself if I didn’t take.”When Bogut signed a two-year deal with Sydney last April, he described it as “my official retirement from the N.B.A.” He proceeded to win Most Valuable Player and Defensive Player of the Year honors in Australia’s National Basketball League, averaging 11.4 points, 11.6 rebounds, 3.4 assists and 2.7 blocks per game.Bogut’s contract with Sydney does not contain an N.B.A. release clause, but he told the Warriors that he would entertain the prospect of rejoining them on a short-term basis after the Australian season — as long as Sydney officials blessed it — should Golden State still have a need.Had the Warriors succeeded in landing a recent free agent from the so-called “buyout” market — such as the swingman Wesley Matthews, who opted to sign with Indiana after securing his release from the Knicks — they would have had no roster room for Bogut.But once it became clear that the Chicago Bulls would refuse to release the veteran center Robin Lopez before March 1, thus missing deadline for Lopez to retain his playoff eligibility with a new team, Golden State intensified its pursuit of Bogut as soon as the Kings were eliminated from the N.B.L. playoffs.As the Warriors continue to try to assimilate the former All-Star center DeMarcus Cousins into their rotation, Bogut said he had “no illusions” about the fact that “some games I’ll play and some games I won’t.” But Bogut insisted he was “happy to be a positive influence on that bench” no matter how much he plays.The Warriors assistant general manager Larry Harris, who was Milwaukee’s general manager in 2005 when the Bucks selected Bogut with the top pick in the draft, made a recent scouting trip to Australia to assess the state of Bogut’s game firsthand and convey the seriousness of Golden State’s interest.Warriors Coach Steve Kerr referred to Bogut as “an insurance policy in the frontcourt.” But Bogut’s defensive know-how and his familiarity with the Warriors’ star trio of Stephen Curry, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green certainly can’t hurt the league’s prohibitive championship favorites in the quest to improve on their woeful standing of 16th in defensive efficiency (109.5 points allowed per 100 possessions.)“I didn’t foresee this happening but I’m excited as hell about it,” Green told Bay Area reporters. He and Bogut quickly meshed as co-anchors of a vaunted Golden State defense in 2014-15, when the Warriors began their five-season run of dominance.After the Warriors won a league-record 73 games in 2015-16 but blew a 3-1 lead to the LeBron James-led Cavaliers in the N.B.A. finals, Bogut and the veteran forward Harrison Barnes were quickly jettisoned to Dallas to create the requisite salary-cap space for Golden State to sign Kevin Durant.Bogut, though, said that returning to the Warriors nearly three years later to play alongside Durant would not “be weird” despite the contentious nature of his departure.“The Golden State Warriors are a very special organization in my heart,” Bogut said. “I had a lot of great years there and won a championship. Even though they moved me, it was understandable to get a guy like Kevin Durant. I probably would have traded myself if I had the same opportunity.”It was Bogut’s longtime agent, David Bauman of Independent Sports and Entertainment, who first pointed out to him that Wednesday’s signing with the Warriors coincided with the two-year anniversary of the fractured tibia in his left leg that Bogut sustained 56 seconds into his Cleveland Cavaliers debut in March 2017.“It’s just funny how the world works sometimes,” Bogut said. “This is an unbelievable opportunity that I’m really thankful for.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaThe Golden State Warriors did more than just fall victim to the biggest comeback in N.B.A. playoff history on Monday night. They also lost DeMarcus Cousins, their starting center, for the foreseeable future — and most likely for the rest of the postseason. A test on Tuesday revealed that he had torn a left quadriceps muscle in the first quarter of the Warriors’ 135-131 loss to the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 2 of their first-round playoff series.Cousins, who had returned this season after tearing his left Achilles’ tendon in January 2018, underwent a magnetic resonance imaging examination that showed the tear, the Warriors announced. The team said Cousins would be out “indefinitely” and begin a course of rehabilitation.Cousins, 28, sustained the injury when he tumbled to the court going for a loose ball early in Monday’s game. He immediately grabbed his left thigh, then limped to the locker room and did not return.It was another devastating blow for Cousins, a four-time N.B.A. All-Star whose career has unraveled because of injuries. Last season, he was in line for a huge new contract when he tore his Achilles’ tendon while playing for the New Orleans Pelicans. He agreed to a modest one-year deal with the Warriors worth $5.3 million.After spending the first half of the season rehabbing, Cousins returned to the court in January and gave the Warriors more depth in their pursuit of a third straight championship. He had been playing well, too, averaging 16.3 points and 8.2 rebounds a game in 30 regular-season appearances.After Cousins departed, the Warriors managed to build a 31-point lead against the Clippers — but then blew it, succumbing to Lou Williams (36 points, 11 assists) and Montrezl Harrell (25 points, 10 rebounds), who helped Los Angeles even the best-of-seven series at a game apiece.RAPTORS 111, MAGIC 82 Kawhi Leonard scored 37 points, Kyle Lowry bounced back from a scoreless playoff opener with 22 and host Toronto routed Orlando on Tuesday night, evening their Eastern Conference first-round series at one win apiece.Pascal Siakam had 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who never trailed and led by as many as 34. Despite playing in foul trouble for much of the night, Leonard finished with a career playoff-high 15 field goals. (AP)NUGGETS 114, SPURS 105 Jamal Murray scored 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter, and host Denver rallied from 19 down to beat San Antonio and tie their Western Conference first-round playoff series at one game apiece.Nikola Jokic had 21 points, 13 rebounds and 8 assists, Gary Harris scored 23 points and Paul Millsap had 20 for Denver. DeMar DeRozan scored a playoff career-high 31 points and LaMarcus Aldridge had 24 points for the Spurs.The Nuggets struggled to make shots deep into the third quarter but found their rhythm in the fourth quarter by hitting nine of their first 11 field goals in the final period to storm into the lead. (FIELD LEVEL MEDIA)Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaHOUSTON — DeMarcus Cousins used to watch soap operas with his grandmother when he was growing up. She would refer to them as her “stories,” he said, and “As the World Turns” was her favorite. Cousins could never fully relate to the absurd drama of his grandmother’s stories until this season, when he joined the Golden State Warriors.“Every episode it was something,” he said. “And that’s what this has turned into.”Cousins is sometimes an innocent bystander. (Consider the midseason beef between Kevin Durant and Draymond Green that stemmed from a late-game meltdown against the Los Angeles Clippers and bled into Durant’s impending free agency.) But sometimes Cousins is involved, even if it is not his choice. He was aware, for example, before Wednesday’s game against the Houston Rockets, that members of the news media and the general public were picking apart his defense and referring to him as a liability.“We all been in this business long enough to know how it goes,” said Cousins, a 6-foot-11 center. “And I’ve been around this team to know how things go around here. You’re always looking for something to make a story. I mean, I could care less. You all got to do your jobs, and I got to do mine.”For all the laments about Cousins’s vulnerability in pick-and-roll defensive situations, there is no denying his offensive impact when he is focused, and he was supremely focused against the Rockets on Wednesday night, collecting 27 points, 8 rebounds and 7 assists in a 106-104 victory that infused the team with some positive vibes.Scoring down low, passing out of the post, setting meaty screens — Cousins does things that the Warriors have seldom featured in their four-plus seasons of dominance.“For as long as we can remember, we haven’t had a guy we can just throw the ball to in the post and work around him,” Stephen Curry said.It is still a process, of course, both for the Warriors, who are working to incorporate another mammoth personality into their fold as they pursue a third straight championship, and for Cousins, a four-time All-Star who spent the first few months of the season building strength and working on his conditioning as he recovered from an Achilles’ tendon tear.Since Cousins made his season debut on Jan. 18, the Warriors are 15-7. But they had lost six of their last 10 games entering Wednesday, and the general mood of the team felt flat. Curry likened it to when Durant joined the Warriors in 2016, and the team spent the first two or three months of the season trying to find its rhythm.“There was a little sensitivity to how everybody was going to get their shots,” Curry said. “At the end of the day, we’re all talented and we all have high basketball I.Q.s, so just let things happen. You don’t have to force anything. We’ve been good at it at times, and not so good at other times. So it’s just a matter of sticking with the program.”After sinking 11 of 16 shots against the Rockets, Cousins acknowledged that it was the best he had felt since he made his return.“I think it’s coming,” Cousins said. “We’ve had stretches where it’s kind of flowing for everybody. But this is a team that’s been together for a while, and they’re used to playing a certain type of way. So for me to just come in — I’m not expecting this team to adjust to me. Obviously, I have to adjust to them.”Durant missed the game with a sprained ankle, which meant that Cousins had more playmaking opportunities than usual. Coach Steve Kerr made some adjustments, too, staggering Cousins and Green for stretches so that each had more room to operate in the middle of the court. Kerr has also been advising his players to pump the brakes in transition.“Sometimes we’ve played a little too fast and shot too many quick shots instead of letting him get down on the block and controlling things,” Kerr said, referring to Cousins. He added: “I think we’ve got to remind ourselves that this is still early in the process. We’re all learning. Me too. I’ve got to learn to use him better.”If Cousins still appears to labor at times (or most of the time) to get overly airborne, his confidence seems fine.“I don’t think anyone can stop me one on one, period,” he said. “So you can put whoever you want on me.”The Warriors and the Rockets have history. In last season’s Western Conference finals, Houston had a 3-2 series lead against Golden State, but Chris Paul injured his hamstring in Game 5. The Rockets lost the final two games of the series without him, and the Warriors went on to successfully defend their N.B.A. championship.Cousins was not involved in that series, but he is a part of the dynamic now — and the Warriors are not quite finished preparing themselves for the postseason. Andrew Bogut, a defense-minded center who last played for Golden State in 2016, is expected to join the team in the coming days after an M.V.P. season with the Sydney Kings of Australia’s National Basketball League. Kerr recently described Bogut as “an insurance policy in the frontcourt.”Yes, the league’s most compelling drama is about to welcome the return of a former cast member. For his part, Cousins said he would continue to focus on the only role he knows.“I just want to play basketball,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Steve Kerr, the coach of the Golden State Warriors, was asked about the concept of inevitability before his team faced the Los Angeles Clippers on Thursday night, which is something that happens during the N.B.A. playoffs. Some questions are more philosophical than others.In this case, the question had to do with the perception shared by many that the Warriors are invincible, that another championship is theirs to lose: What is it like for Kerr to live inside that bubble, knowing full well that his players are capable of making mistakes and even (gasp) failing?Kerr took the opportunity to recall a moment from his childhood in Southern California. When he was 9 years old, he watched his beloved U.C.L.A. Bruins defeat the Kentucky Wildcats for another N.C.A.A. championship, their 10th in 12 years. Coach John Wooden retired after the game. In the nearly half-century since, U.C.L.A. has won one championship — in 1995, when Bob Myers, now the general manager of the Warriors, was a reserve forward.Kerr made sure to note that coincidence. But his larger point was about how sports are unpredictable, which is one of the reasons they are so appealing. Just as no one knew, for example, that the Warriors would make the wrong kind of history by blowing a 31-point lead on Monday, no one knew that they would bounce back on Thursday by obliterating the Clippers, 132-105, in Game 3 of their first-round series.At the same time, no one knows whether the Warriors will go on to win a third straight championship — or how long this team will remain intact. Nothing is inevitable. Everything is uncertain. All dynasties end.“So you don’t worry about expectations,” Kerr said. “Just go out there and play and do your best and see if you can sustain it for a long time. But everything comes to an end, and we’re just trying to keep this going for as long as we can.”The central (if unmentioned) figure in all of this, of course, is Kevin Durant, who has taken on all comers this season in the form of a 7-foot, long-limbed question mark. Bound for free agency this summer, Durant could stay with the Warriors, with whom he has already won two championships — but most expect him to go. Who knows? The agita has sometimes clouded his team’s season.The only sure thing is his basketball genius, which still belongs to the Warriors — for now if not forever — and was on display Thursday night against the Clippers, as he helped lift Golden State to a two-games-to-one lead in the series. Game 4 is Sunday at Staples Center.“Honestly,” Clippers Coach Doc Rivers said, “they dissected us.”It was a resounding statement by the Warriors in the wake of Monday’s fiasco, and no player was more electric or dynamic than Durant, who made all five of his shots in the first quarter — and somehow seemed to improve as the night went on. He finished with 38 points and 7 assists, shooting 14 of 23 from the field.“He came out super aggressive, in kill mode,” the Warriors’ Draymond Green said. “That was all the difference for us.”Durant’s explosion in Game 3 followed a couple of muted efforts for him early in the series. Defended by the Clippers’ Patrick Beverley, a 6-foot-1 guard whom Durant has described in recent days as both a “pit bull” and a “pest,” Durant managed 23 points before he was ejected in Game 1, then struggled even more in Game 2: 21 points and 9 turnovers while shooting just 5 of 8 from the field.At practice this week, Durant had a scrum with the news media that felt more like a doctoral defense. He explained his approach on offense. He talked about strategy and chemistry and shot selection and rhythm. He may have mentioned the officiating once or twice. He also offered a reminder in case anyone had forgotten.“I’m Kevin Durant,” he said. “You know who I am.”After Thursday’s game, Durant said the only difference was that the team had run more plays for him while putting him in better positions to score, often on the low block. Consider: He scored 27 points in the first half but did not make a single 3-pointer. His mentality, he said, never changes. He was not going to force bad shots. He was not going to turn his matchup with Beverley into some sort of me-first duel.“I don’t do that type of stuff,” Durant said. “I just play.”The Warriors have had one bad stretch against the Clippers in this series, and it cost them. But they clearly seem more together and more resilient than they were back in November, when they visited Staples Center and lost to the Clippers in overtime after Green and Durant barked at each other on the bench, then feuded in the locker room. The team wound up suspending Green for a game. Durant, annoyed at questions about free agency, later boycotted the news media for about two weeks. The cracks were showing. Was the dynasty crumbling?The last few days, then, were in some ways a microcosm of their season: The Warriors reassembled the pieces. They recognize how fragile this all is, how rare their opportunity. And if they needed a reminder, they got one in Game 2 when DeMarcus Cousins, their starting center, tore a quadriceps muscle. He will likely miss the rest of the postseason. In his absence, the rest of them will go on — with an understanding that this run will not last forever.“We realize how lucky we are to do this,” said Klay Thompson, their All-Star shooting guard. “Leave it out there. Nothing’s ever guaranteed in the future, so play to win now and do it collectively.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressArkansas has hired Nevada's Eric Musselman as its next men's basketball coach.The 54-year-old Musselman led a dramatic turnaround in Reno, leading the Wolf Pack to three NCAA Tournament in four years after a nine-year absence. Nevada reached the Sweet 16 in 2018, but lost in the first round to Florida this year.The son of a former coach, Musselman has had a well-traveled career. He coached the Sacramento Kings and Golden State Warriors in the NBA, had stints in the CBA and D-League, along with assistant jobs in the NBA and college.Razorbacks athletic director Hunter Yurachek announced Musselman's hiring Sunday on Twitter. Musselman replaces Mike Anderson, who was fired last month after eight seasons.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Stephen Curry was about 25 minutes into a news conference here on Saturday afternoon when a magician who goes by the name Jibrizy sidled up to the dais to do a card trick. Curry, the Golden State Warriors point guard, seemed impressed.“That was nice, big fella,” Curry said. “That was crazy. Y’all see that? Did y’all see that? What’s your name, boss? Jibrizy? Nice to meet you, man. Fire. You’re fire. That’s what’s up.”Lots of weird stuff tends to happen during N.B.A. All-Star weekend, and a cameo by Jibrizy was no exception. But it was also the rare instance when the spotlight left Curry, if only for a moment, in the run-up to the weekend’s flagship game on Sunday.Curry, a six-time All-Star and two-time most valuable player who has already coaxed Golden State to three championships, is used to lots of attention. But he relished his return to Charlotte, where he grew up to become perhaps the greatest shooter of all time — and where he is still revered.“From the time I started playing basketball at 5, right down the street at the recreation center, to now, a lot has happened,” Curry said. “A lot of great things.”Curry was not so great Sunday, but that was not the point. He finished with 17 points, 9 rebounds and 7 assists for Team Giannis in a 178-164 loss to Team LeBron in the All-Star Game, which was a defense-free postscript to a weekend that was a Curry family affair.“Incredibly fond of the family,” Commissioner Adam Silver told reporters. “They seem to be the first family of Charlotte, at least this week.”For much of his trip home, Curry was accompanied by his father, Dell, who spent 10 seasons playing for the Charlotte Hornets, and his mother, Sonya, who drilled a half-court heave after the family helped refurbish a community center. It was probably the family’s splashiest shot of the weekend.“I was surprised,” Stephen Curry said, “because the first four she flung underhand, they didn’t make it to the rim. And then that last one, it just looked good from the moment it left her hand, and I was going, ‘Wham, bam, can of ham! That’s going in!’ ”Curry had less success in Saturday night’s 3-point shootout, where he was joined by his younger brother, Seth, who plays for the Portland Trail Blazers. Stephen Curry made it to the championship round before losing to Joe Harris of the Brooklyn Nets.But Curry had also found time to return to Davidson College, his alma mater, where he clambered into the student section to celebrate an 80-72 victory over St. Joseph’s on Friday night.“The energy in the building was unbelievable,” Curry said. “It’s surreal every time I get to go back there.”The following afternoon, Curry swayed in a sea of reporters (and at least one magician) as he fielded a wide-ranging mix of questions.What did it mean to him to be back in Charlotte? “It’s kind of overwhelming to be honest,” he said. “I’ve got to be like the Energizer bunny.”Could he say something nice to all his fans in the Dominican Republic? “I’ve been there, and I hope to go back,” he said.Did he have a favorite basketball-themed movie? “Probably ‘Love & Basketball,’ ” he said. “I’m a romantic, bro.”During warm-ups for Sunday’s game, Curry mimicked a game of volleyball with Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, posted up a ball boy so that he could take an entry pass from Oklahoma City Thunder point guard Russell Westbrook, made chitchat with bigwigs who were courtside and jacked his share of 30-footers. Most of them went in. All-Star weekend is a circus, but it is still basketball, after all, and Curry has unique skills.He is assembling another spectacular season, even if his work has been overshadowed by fellow All-Stars like James Harden of the Houston Rockets, Paul George of the Thunder and Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo. Curry has been so consistently good for so long now — and his team so dominant — that perhaps some of the novelty has worn off. It is unfair, of course.If his feats feel too familiar, consider his production this season: 28.6 points, 5.2 assists and 5.1 rebounds per game while shooting 48.8 percent from the field and 44.4 percent from 3-point range. He missed 11 games with a groin injury but spent part of that time gluing the Warriors’ locker room back together after Kevin Durant and Draymond Green had a big dust-up.The friction stemmed from Durant’s looming free agency, which has been a steady hum of distraction for the Warriors. But Curry has been a stabilizing force for his team — and even for the league.With a contract that runs through the 2021-22 season, Curry has not had to face pressing questions about his future. He is committed to the Warriors, and the Warriors appear committed to him. He is a throwback in an era dominated by player movement, the current face of which is Anthony Davis, the All-Star center who recently requested a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans. So many other stars face uncertain summers, too: Durant, Kyrie Irving and Kawhi Leonard among them.But Curry has his niche in Northern California, even if his roots are in North Carolina. After Sunday’s game, he described trying to persuade his father to move to the Bay Area, where Curry has settled in with his wife, Ayesha, and their three children.Dell Curry, who is a color commentator for the Hornets, always says no.“This is where home is for him,” Stephen Curry said.And for Stephen Curry, the whereabouts of his father seem to be the only player movements on his mind. Curry said he was unconcerned with free agency this summer and the potential departures of his teammates.“That’s a part of the business,” Curry said. “But the great teams, the great players, they stay in the moment and they understand what’s in front of them.”And so, after taking a weekend to dip into his past, Curry returned to looking ahead. The journey goes on.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Andrew Bogut will start at center for the two-time defending champion Golden State Warriors after DeMarcus Cousins tore his quad in the team's loss to the Los Angeles Clippers on Monday, head coach Steve Kerr said on Wednesday. The towering Australian, who won a championship with Golden State in 2015, rejoined the team as a backup to Cousins in March after a standout season with the Sydney Kings in Australia's National Basketball League (NBL). "I think Bogut will do a great job. He's been great since he's been back," Kerr told reporters during practice ahead of Thursday's Game Three, which comes after the teams split the first two games of the best-of-seven series."This is why we got him -- just in case. We were hoping we wouldn't have any injuries obviously but that was our most vulnerable position," he said."We're lucky to have Andrew." Last month Bogut, 34, said he was happy to just be along for the ride and would be fine just waving a towel and cheering his team mates from the bench. He will, however, see a lot more action than that now that Cousins is sidelined.Kerr could have started 23-year-old big man Kevon Looney or forward Draymond Green at center but said he was confident in Bogut's abilities. Cousins will not need surgery, according to media reports, to repair the left quad muscle, which he tore while running down a lose ball in the first half of the Warriors 135-131 loss to the Clippers in Oakland.Cousins, who in January made his Warriors debut after a torn Achilles tendon kept him off the court for almost a year, is unlikely to return during the playoffs, where Golden State is chasing a fourth NBA championship in five seasons. (Reporting by Rory Carroll; Editing by Toby Davis)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Los Angeles Lakers and coach Luke Walton mutually parted ways on Friday, general manager Rob Pelinka announced in a statement.Walton's status had been tenuous, even before Magic Johnson resigned as president of basketball operations on Tuesday. Lakers owner Jeanie Buss was reportedly ready to OK a departure after previously being fully supportive of Walton."We would like to thank Luke for his dedicated service over the last three years," Pelinka said in a statement. "We wish Luke and his family the best of luck moving forward."Walton compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three seasons."I want to thank Jeanie Buss and the Buss family for giving me the opportunity to coach the Lakers," Walton said in a statement. "This franchise and the city will always be special to me and my family."The Lakers went 37-45 this season in a disappointing first campaign of the LeBron James era.Los Angeles was 20-14 when James suffered a groin injury during a Christmas Day win over the Golden State Warriors and the team's fortunes plummeted from there.Walton may not be unemployed for a long period as the Sacramento Kings are reportedly interested in interviewing him for their opening.The Kings went 39-43 this season and fired coach Dave Joerger. They have an impressive young group led by point guard De'Aaron Fox, shooting guard Buddy Hield and power forward Marvin Bagley III.Among the candidates for the Lakers' post is former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and Philadelphia 76ers assistant coach Monty Williams.Lue coached James for parts of three seasons in Cleveland -- including the franchise's 2016 NBA Finals title -- while Williams coached the New Orleans Pelicans for five seasons.Williams also is reported a candidate for the Sacramento job.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersArkansas has hired Eric Musselman to become its next basketball coach.The 54-year-old Musselman, Nevada's coach since 2015, led the Wolf Pack to the NCAA Tournament in three of his four seasons at the Mountain West school. He previously was the head coach of the Golden State Warriors (2002-04) and Sacramento Kings (2006-07). His combined NBA record is 108-138."Eric Musselman is a coach that has had experience at every level of basketball from the NCAA to the NBA," Arkansas athletic director Hunter Yurachek said in a statement Sunday."He was practically born into the game and his passion for basketball is unmistakable. He has been successful throughout his career, including the remarkable job he did in returning the University of Nevada into a perennial NCAA Tournament team. Coach Musselman is high-energy and possesses an extremely high basketball IQ. He has a great attention to detail and has structured his programs to develop players individually while building a successful team."Musselman's record at Nevada was 110-34 overall and 54-18 in the Mountain West.In his first season, 2015-16, he led a team that won nine games the previous season to the CBI Tournament title, followed by the three NCAA Tournament runs.He took the Wolf Pack to the Sweet 16 in 2018, where they lost to tournament darling Loyola-Chicago, 69-68.This season, the Wolf Pack were ranked as high as No. 5 in the AP Top 25 and finished 29-5 (15-3 MW). Their season ended March 21 in the first round of the NCAA Tournament when the seventh-seeded Wolf Pack lost to No. 10 seed Florida, 70-61.Arkansas last month fired Mike Anderson, who was 169-102 in eight seasons with three NCAA Tournament appearances. The Razorbacks went 18-16 this season.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Golden State Warriors fear center DeMarcus Cousins suffered a torn quad during the team's stunning Game 2 loss to the Los Angeles Clippers in Oakland, Calif., ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported late Monday night.Noting that the exact nature of the injury won't be known until an MRI exam is performed Tuesday, Wojnarowski reported "there was evidence that Cousins' noncontact injury ... was serious and season-ending, league sources said."Cousins was injured while trying to run down a loose ball 3 1/2 minutes into the team's eventual 135-131 loss to the Clippers. With the Warriors leading 11-9 and the Clippers possessing the ball just past the half-court line, Cousins deflected a pass and sent it down the court toward the Warriors' bench. Trying to run down the ball before it went out of bounds, Cousins stumbled and went down without being touched, and immediately grabbed his left quad.He got up and soon limped off the court toward the Warriors' locker room. He had two points on a pair of free throws in four official minutes played. He also had two rebounds and an assist.Cousins, 28, had nine points, nine rebounds and four assists in Saturday night's Game 1, his first career playoff game. The Warriors won that game 121-104.Cousins signed a one-year, $5.3 million deal with the Warriors last offseason, then missed the team's first 45 games of the season as he continued to rehab from a ruptured left Achilles tendon he suffered playing for the New Orleans Pelicans on Jan. 26, 2018.In taking the one-year deal with the Warriors, Cousins' plan was to use this season to play his way back into a big free-agent contract this summer. If the quad is indeed torn, Cousins "could be facing several more months of rehab," per Wojnarowski.Picked fifth overall in the 2010 draft, the nine-year veteran is a four-time All-Star with career averages of 21.2 points, 10.9 rebounds. 3.2 assists, 1.4 steals and 1.2 blocks per game.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOAKLAND, Calif. — Center DeMarcus Cousins is unlikely to return this postseason for the Golden State Warriors yet won't require surgery on his torn left quadriceps muscle.Coach Steve Kerr has named Andrew Bogut as his starter in place of Cousins for Game 3 Thursday night of the team's first-round playoff series against the Clippers in Los Angeles.Playing in just his second career postseason game after a nine-year wait, the 28-year-old Cousins went down in the first quarter of a 135-131 Game 2 loss Monday night. He fell in front of the Golden State bench after swiping a ball from Patrick Beverley in the back court. Cousins immediately grabbed at his left quad then hobbled to the locker room at the 8:09 mark.The tear was revealed by an MRI exam Tuesday. The big man returned in January from a nearly yearlong absence while recovering from surgery for a torn left Achilles tendon."More than anything, I'm just crushed for DeMarcus," Kerr said Wednesday. "He's been waiting his whole career for this and the second game he goes down after putting all that work in to recover from the Achilles. He's had a great season for us."For now, Cousins "needs to be comfortable," said Kerr, so there isn't a plan for how much he might be around the team for the remainder of the postseason.Teammates Kevin Durant and Draymond Green wanted to respect Cousins' space but planned to reach out."Just definitely thinking about him. I know for a fact with how much medicine is so good and doctors and all that stuff is so good, I'm sure he'll be back fine, be back to 100 percent after his rehab, so I'm looking forward to that," Durant said.Bogut will step in to start for the two-time defending champions, a familiar face who re-signed last month for a second stint with the franchise after playing for the 2015 champions. He also played on the '16 team that won 73 games before losing to LeBron James and the Cavaliers in Game 7 of the finals."This is why we got him, just in case," Kerr said.Kevon Looney will also see increased minutes. He scored a career-high 19 points on 6-for-6 shooting in Game 1 while filling in for Cousins.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead seven players in double figures and the Los Angeles Clippers defeated the Utah Jazz 143-137 in overtime on Wednesday night, snapping a three-game skid to close the regular season.Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Patrick Beverley had 14 points in his return from injury.The Clippers' losing streak had already dropped them from the sixth seed to No. 8 in the playoffs, where they'll open against the defending champion Golden State Warriors.Grayson Allen led Utah with a career-high 40 points. The rookie made 13 of 14 free throws and five 3-pointers, but was limited to four points in overtime.The Jazz earned the fifth seed and they'll play No. 4 Houston in the first round.The Clippers dominated overtime, 17-8. Zubac had back-to-back dunks and rookie Jerome Robinson scored six of his seven points.The Jazz outscored the Clippers 29-24 in the fourth after Los Angeles led by nine. Allen had 14 points in the quarter.His free throws put Utah ahead 126-124, but the Jazz fouled Sindarius Thornwell, who made both to tie it up and force overtime.The Clippers shot 71 percent in the first quarter when they led by 17.They blew that lead by the third when the Jazz tied it twice. Harrell scored the Clippers' last two baskets to send them into the fourth leading 102-97.TIP-INSJazz: F-C Derrick Favors (back spasms) missed his fifth straight game. ... C Rudy Gobert (left ankle soreness), G Kyle Korver (right knee soreness), G Donovan Mitchell (thoracic spasm), G Ricky Rubio (left quad contusion) and G Raul Neto (left ankle soreness) sat out. ... They have won eight of 10. ... They lost the second game of their final back-to-back.Clippers: Beverley returned after missing the last three games with a right hip pointer. ... They lost the season series 2-1.UP NEXTJazz: Meet Houston in first round of Western Conference playoffs.Clippers: Meet defending champion Golden State in first round.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy David Waldstein and Kelly WhitesideAnother wretched Knicks season has ended, but from its ashes a justifiable optimism is taking root. The Knicks have the money to add two star players this summer, and there is a growing buzz in the N.B.A. that they could acquire Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors and Kyrie Irving of the Boston Celtics, who can be free agents.With one of the top picks in the N.B.A. draft, optimism turns to giddiness. Could next season’s Knicks feature not only Durant and Irving but also Zion Williamson, Duke’s freshman sensation? Or will the Knicks trade their lottery pick for a standout like Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans?Such big names potentially brighten their future, but there’s another name that could make a difference: James L. Dolan.And so it must be asked: Will Dolan, the unpredictable and imperious owner of the team, find a way to mess it all up?Based on his two-decade history as owner, there is reason to wonder. For the second time in five years, the Knicks won only 17 games, a franchise low. This was also the sixth consecutive year the Knicks failed to make the playoffs, and the 12th time in the last 15 years. It’s a staggering level of impotence for a team that spends as much money as it does and has all the inherent advantages of playing in New York City at Madison Square Garden.That enduring failure, combined with Dolan’s public mistreatment of some fans, has led to a growing anger and skepticism in a disaffected, if dedicated, fan base.Watching the team spin its wheels seems part of the appeal or burden: The Knicks have committed more than $800 million in payroll over the last decade — not to mention millions more spent on a revolving door of high-profile executives — and they spend over the league salary cap each year as a matter of course. They also have averaged no fewer than 19,000 fans a game, no matter how bad they were.There are always appealing visiting teams to watch, and some seasons have started strong only to fizzle. But with such a crucial summer on the horizon, the thinking among fans and Knicks observers goes, perhaps not even Dolan can mess up this opportunity to forge a proven winner.“I wish he had a longer fuse when it comes to the fans,” said David Stern, the commissioner of the N.B.A. from 1984 to 2014. “There are some overreactions, but it will have nothing to do with free agency or how the team is run. That all falls on Steve Mills and Scott Perry. Him having a short fuse at times will have zero bearing on player signings.”Mills, the team president, has worked with Dolan on and off over the last two decades, and Perry is the general manager. They are the latest group that Dolan has entrusted to run the basketball side of the organization. (Others have included Isiah Thomas, Larry Brown, Donnie Walsh, Mike D’Antoni and Phil Jackson — all highly compensated and most of them successful elsewhere but unable to succeed under Dolan.)Dolan may be seen as the odious, impulsive and vengeful tyrant of the Garden, but Stern said Dolan desperately wanted a championship squad.“Jim has been on a crusade to get the best basketball people around him,” Stern said. “That’s what he thought he had with Phil and Isiah and Donnie, and what he thinks he has now with Steve and Scott.”But even with some of those well-respected men, Dolan was known to interfere in basketball decisions, particularly Walsh’s. Dolan has vowed to cease the meddling, and Mills says he has kept his word.“I keep him informed, but he does not get involved in what we do,” Mills said in a telephone interview last week.Dolan, however, did dictate to Mills which news outlets could be involved in some of Mills’s own news conferences. On two occasions this season, The Daily News, which Dolan and Madison Square Garden accused of being biased against them, was not invited, meaning Mills did not have total authority over everything to do with the Knicks.“Jim has strong opinions about the media,” Mills said, “and how he has been covered by the media and how we’ve been covered by the media. Really, my focus and what I have complete control over, how we build this basketball team — that’s what I lock into.”Dolan declined to be interviewed for this article.Several other executives who have worked closely with Dolan over the years but did not want to be named in order to speak candidly described a complex man layered with contradictory impulses and character traits.He can be irrational but also is fiercely loyal to certain people. He can be socially awkward and quite charitable but also unleash a volcanic temper on employees.He is said to worship his father, Charles, 92, the founder of Cablevision. But while Charles Dolan would carry lists of employees’ names in his pocket to help greet them and ask them about their lives, James Dolan is just as likely to walk past employees with barely a hello, associates said, and berate others in meetings. Many employees at the Garden simply try to keep their distance.Seth Abraham was the chief executive of Madison Square Garden for almost five years, until 2004, when Dolan was directly in charge of the Knicks, the Rangers and the Liberty. The two worked together closely.“He’s got the right mind-set,” Abraham said. “The issue is that he’s a zealot and his passion sometimes overwhelms him and the people who work for him. His passion is hot.”Certainly, some fans and charities have benefited from his generosity, while others have felt the sting of his wrath.Most notably, Dolan had security guards wrestle Charles Oakley, a former Knick and fan favorite, out of the building in 2017, an unpleasant scene that unfolded in front of thousands. And last month he had guards detain and then bar another fan from the building who had called out to him, “Sell the team!”Although Dolan may eventually sell the Knicks and the Rangers (he sold the Liberty), few think he will do so any time soon, especially when the fortunes of the team could be close to changing significantly. The Knicks are valued at $4 billion, the highest in the league, according to Forbes magazine.“Fans probably don’t like him because of the team’s record and because he didn’t engage much with them,” said Enes Kanter, the center who played parts of two seasons with the Knicks until he was released in February and is now on the Portland Trail Blazers, who are in the playoffs. “But if they knew him more directly they would probably like him more.”Kanter said the fans had the right to feel the way they did because New York City is a great city, but its basketball team has struggled historically. “They deserve a good team,” he added.They have not had one — a real good one — in 20 years, and the anger mounts. In fact, fear of a growing dissatisfaction among fans led to the Garden quietly limiting the amount of beer and alcohol that could be purchased at games late this season, perhaps a prudent decision considering the level of frustration in a fan base with little to cheer.Prudent decisions have not always been the norm with the Knicks. This is the organization that Stern once said was “not a model of intelligent management.” That comment came a dozen years ago, toward the end of an ugly time in the history of the organization, when a former Garden executive, Anucha Browne Sanders, sued the Knicks and Thomas for sexual harassment, and won in court.There is also a perception among fans and people in the league that prospective players want no part of the bungling Knicks because the team is mismanaged to a point where winning is nearly impossible. In 2015, the Knicks made offers to LaMarcus Aldridge, Greg Monroe and DeAndre Jordan, who was coming off two very productive seasons at the time, and all three signed elsewhere. The next year, the Knicks could not even get a meeting with Durant.Now the hope is that Durant has changed his mind, perhaps convinced that he and Irving or another top free agent could be the ones to lead the Knicks to their first title since 1973. But with the Dolan wild card, hungry Knicks fans cannot be sure.“He has cultivated an environment where N.B.A. guys don’t want to play there,” said Gary Horn, 57, a lifelong Knicks fan and screenwriter who grew up in New York and now lives in California. “But his grand flaw is that he has deputized people who don’t know how to draft young players.”A few years ago at the Chicago predraft camp, Mills said, players and their agents told him that they did not want to join the Knicks but said the reason was more about the Knicks’ strategy under the former executive Phil Jackson.“It was the organization, style of play, however you want to talk about it,” Mills said.Mills added that he and Perry were working hard to change the perception of the Knicks and that David Fizdale, the coach, was a draw for both players and fans by dint of his magnetic personality.Some fans are ready to believe the circumstances have aligned for a superteam.“If Durant thinks playing for the Knicks is what’s best for his business and branding goals,” Jonathan Macri, a fan and founder of the Knicks Film School, a website dedicated to the team, said, “Dolan’s reputation as an unpleasant, impulsive individual isn’t going to change that.”Kevin Draper contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaOAKLAND, Calif. — The Golden State Warriors run a practice drill that Coach Steve Kerr did not intend as a tribute, even if he named it after someone who taught him a great deal. He calls it the “Lute Olson drill,” and it is a blur of activity: a 3-on-2 exercise that Kerr uses to get his players up and down the court.“It’s a good way to get a little running and rhythm and shooting,” he said.The Warriors, who are pretty good at those things, have elevated basketball into modern art in recent seasons. But Kerr, as he helps define basketball’s present, cannot help but dip into his past. He learned that drill in 1983, when he was a freshman guard at the University of Arizona playing for Olson, who was in the early stages of building a college powerhouse. Kerr, ever the student, was already absorbing as much as he could.Olson, 84, retired as the men’s basketball coach at Arizona in 2008, but his influence resonates. Not so much, oddly enough, at the college level, where, of late, Arizona has had its well-publicized struggles along with the rest of the Pac-12 Conference. Instead, Olson’s impact exists largely in the N.B.A. — and with the Warriors, in particular.Bruce Fraser, one of Kerr’s longtime assistants, played for Olson in the 1980s before working under him as a graduate assistant. And Andre Iguodala, the veteran Warriors forward, played at Arizona from 2002 to 2004, when he sought to emulate an older teammate named Luke Walton.“All the fundamentals,” Iguodala said. “Things like footwork, body positioning and just being a smart player.”Walton, who now has the thankless task of coaching the Los Angeles Lakers, is still considered a member of the Warriors’ extended family after serving as one of Kerr’s assistants for two seasons. Before Walton joined the Warriors in 2014, Kerr did not know him well. But Olson recommended him, and that was more than enough.“If you came out of Arizona during that era, you knew how to play the game,” Fraser said. “And that was mostly because of Lute.”Olson, who has had health issues in recent years, emphasized basketball basics. Each practice began with a series of chest passes. Players worked on their weak hands. The Warriors, who warm up by launching half-court heaves, are slightly less regimented.“If Coach Olson walked in and saw some of this, he’d be shaking his head,” Fraser said. “He’d think we’re so loose.”The Warriors are still mindful of the essentials, though, especially at training camp, where they dribble around traffic cones and throw passes at pitch-back nets configured with targets. If they channel the Harlem Globetrotters, their flamboyance is rooted in bedrock principles.“And I think you could tie a lot of that back to Coach Olson and Arizona,” Fraser said.Kerr played for several legendary N.B.A. coaches — Phil Jackson, Gregg Popovich, Lenny Wilkens, Cotton Fitzsimmons — and he took pieces from each as he developed his own style. Jerry Marvin, his former coach at Palisades High School in Los Angeles, made a big impression, too. But these were coaches with unique approaches.“I think the common thread is their force of personality,” Kerr said. “They all saw the game a little differently and ran different stuff, basing a lot of it on their personnel. But it’s not what made them great coaches. It was having great talent, and then developing a great culture and system so that their talent could flourish.”Olson, for example, adapted to the strengths of his roster. He became more guard-oriented over the years, especially after he recruited high-profile players like Damon Stoudamire, Khalid Reeves and Gilbert Arenas. (Kerr noted how he had been one of the “slow guys in the backcourt” when Olson was just starting out at Arizona.)But Olson was not necessarily trying to outwit anyone by being especially innovative. Basketball, Kerr said, is not like football, where a mastermind like Bill Belichick can lean on his tactical genius to mold the New England Patriots into the most dominant N.F.L. team of his era.“Football is so strategic,” Kerr said. “But in basketball, there aren’t many guys I can think of historically who are the best coaches on earth who were just offensive wizards or defensive wizards. It was more about the culture they built and the way their teams played together — not a style or a system.”It has become a hackneyed concept in sports, as if teams can just crack the code on demand, but Olson was all about culture, his former players say. Jason Terry, a retired N.B.A. guard who played at Arizona from 1995 to 1999, recalled his recruitment. He was not a shy young man, but Olson, at that point firmly established as one of the game’s top coaches, had the sort of gravitas that intimidated him.On the second day of Terry’s official visit to Arizona, Olson and his wife, Bobbi, had him over for pancakes.“These unbelievable pancakes,” Terry, an analyst for Turner Sports, said in a telephone interview. “That was a big part of the recruitment. But I also remember that he kind of came over and put his big paw on my shoulder, and I jumped. He was like, ‘Nothing to be scared of young fella. It’s great to have you in my home.’ And from that point on, you were just at ease.”Olson, Terry said, was the first coach he had who never used profanity. Olson would glare. His face would go red. And those big paws would shake.“But he would never yell,” Terry said. “He would just say your name over and over and over.”Above all, Olson imbued his players with the sense that they were a part of something larger than themselves. Before the national championship game in 1997, two prominent alumni — Kerr and Sean Elliott, both of whom had graduated to the N.B.A. — boarded the team bus. Olson had invited them to address his players, and their message was simple: Do it for all of us who have come before you but could never quite get the job done.Terry saw that Olson had tears in his eyes. Arizona went on to win its first national title by defeating Kentucky in overtime.“We knew that we couldn’t let him down,” Terry said.With the Warriors, Kerr definitely swears on occasion. (Ask Draymond Green.) And the N.B.A. is not college basketball. But Kerr still tries to foster an atmosphere that is more about the collective whole than about its supremely talented parts. Kerr loathes isolation sets. He celebrates ball movement. And he stages team dinners on road trips, where family members are welcome.As for the Pac-12, these are rough days. Arizona, under Coach Sean Miller, has been entwined in a corruption scandal, and the conference could send just one team to the N.C.A.A. tournament. Iguodala described the Pac-12 as garbage (he used a more colorful word), though he expressed hope moving forward. Kerr was more diplomatic.“It’s been a dry spell,” he said. “And I really don’t know the answer.”In fact, the Pac-12 has not won a national championship since Kerr boarded the Arizona team bus back in 1997 and delivered his pregame pep talk. But in his own way, as the Warriors chase another title, he is still carrying the mantle for the conference and his old coach.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe NBA rescinded technical fouls assessed to Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant and Los Angeles Clippers forward JaMychal Green on Friday after reviewing a call made during Thursday night's game.Durant and Green were exchanging words during the third quarter when the double-technical was called, stunning both players.The decision to rescind was announced from the league's @NBAOfficial account on Twitter.The change was good for Durant, as he already received two technicals earlier in the series. An accumulation of seven technicals during the postseason carries an automatic one-game suspension. He had lobbied for the technicals to be rescinded after Thursday's 132-105 victory.--Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, who missed Game 3 of his team's first-round playoff series against the Brooklyn Nets on Thursday night because of left knee soreness, is listed as doubtful for Game 4 on Saturday. The NBA announced his status in its injury report.Embiid's status has digressed from the first three games when he was listed as questionable. He continues to deal with left knee tendinitis, a problem throughout the regular season, when he missed 14 of the Sixers' 24 games after the All-Star break.Despite Embiid's absence in Game 3, the visiting 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory over the host Nets to take a 2-1 lead. Greg Monroe started in Embiid's place and collected nine points on 4-for-13 shooting and grabbed 13 rebounds. Game 4 of the best-of-seven will also be played in Brooklyn before the series shifts to Philadelphia on Tuesday.--The status of Detroit Pistons forward Blake Griffin remains uncertain entering Saturday's Game 3 of the team's Eastern Conference first-round series against the Milwaukee Bucks.Griffin missed the first two games with a left knee injury, and coach Dwane Casey didn't shed any light on whether the six-time All-Star will return on Saturday for the eighth-seeded Pistons, who lost the first two games of the series in Milwaukee by an average of 28 points."Day-to-day. I'm not talking about Blake," Casey told reporters after Friday's practice. "Day-to-day. Same old words. Just like I am on coaching -- day-to-day."--Former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue was scheduled to interview with the Los Angeles Lakers for their head coaching vacancy, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.The Lakers fired coach Luke Walton last week after three seasons and a 98-148 record.Lue, who previously served as an assistant coach for the Boston Celtics, L.A. Clippers and Cavaliers, became head coach in Cleveland during the 2015-16 season after David Blatt was fired.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOAKLAND, Calif. — Steve Kerr preached to the Golden State Warriors to not "take the bait."The bait being Patrick Beverley.Stephen Curry scored 38 points and made eight 3-pointers to give him the most in postseason history, and the top-seeded Golden State Warriors began their quest for a three-peat by running away from the frustrated Los Angeles Clippers for a 121-104 victory in their playoff opener Saturday on a night tempers flared.Kevin Durant and Beverley were ejected with 4:41 to go, just 19 seconds after they received double-technicals when Durant stripped Beverley and the Clippers guard fell into the scorer's table. They both became enraged again and official Ed Malloy immediately sent them both to the locker room. Durant high-fived fans as he exited and the home crowd went into chants of "Beat L.A.!"Durant said Beverley has a "different type of grit" coming from Chicago."You know what he's going to bring to the table, just the physicality, mucking up the game a little bit with his physicality, his talking, everything. That's what he brings to each team he plays on. That's his identity," Durant said. "For me, I know that coming into the series. I thought it was fun tonight."Like Durant, Beverley said he had fun."I got pushed, I got up and I got ejected. I guess the refs, I guess he saw something that I don't know," he said. "But that's all right. I give them a lot of credit." Perhaps this old, heated rivalry still has all the testiness of years past — just with new faces all around."Pat's going to talk, and that's legal," Clippers coach Doc Rivers said.Curry shot 8 for 12 from deep to pass Ray Allen (385) for career postseason 3s with 386, had a postseason career-high 15 rebounds, seven assists and the 31st 30-point postseason performance of his career."To be in the same category and to pass a guy like Ray Allen and all the iconic moments he's had in playoff games and finals games, it's pretty surreal," Curry said. "Definitely honored and grateful for those opportunities. I always joked, if I shoot a lot of 3s I better make a lot of them."On one of his marvelous 3s, the two-time MVP knocked one down from way back late in the third, nearly did the splits in the air and landed on his back side — still smiling all the while.These teams are meeting for just the second time in the postseason after the Clippers took a seven-game series in the first round in 2014 when the California franchises had a deep dislike for each other.Game 2 is Monday night back at Oracle Arena.Draymond Green got Golden State going by making all five of his shots in the first quarter on the way to 17 points to go with seven assists and seven rebounds, while Durant scored 23 points as the Warriors ran their postseason winning streak to seven games.Montrezl Harrell scored 26 points and fellow reserve Lou Williams contributed 25 points and nine assists as Los Angeles returned to the playoffs after missing last season following six straight appearances.Beverley, who missed last Sunday's 131-104 loss at Oracle because of a right hip pointer and was booed during pregame introductions, didn't score in the first half and wound up with three points on 1-for-7 shooting, seven assists and seven rebounds.He and Durant received double-technicals with 5 minutes left before they got into it again."We took the bait. He took the bait. That's two technicals. You get seven technicals. Your seventh one is a suspension in the playoffs," Kerr said. "He's got four to play with after one game. That's what Beverley does. ... You cannot take the bait. That's a bad trade for us. The Clippers have made a lot of good trades this year. That may be their best."The Clippers lost their cool on a couple of occasions, and that hurt playing in an already difficult road arena.Danilo Gallinari's technical in the final minute of the second only further fueled the home crowd, and Curry capitalized as the Warriors ran to a 69-56 halftime advantage."Curry has destroyed us all year," Rivers said.COUSINS' NIGHTDeMarcus Cousins fouled out with 7:16 left after scoring nine points in his playoff following a nine-year wait and nearly yearlong comeback from last January's devastating torn left Achilles tendon that required surgery.Cousins, who played his first game of the season Jan. 18 at the Clippers, had nine rebounds and four assists.POISEKerr challenged the Warriors — not to mention himself with a self-acknowledged temper — to be more disciplined yelling at the officials. Green was knocked down by Beverley on a no-call early and argued but avoided a technical."Fans need to understand, it wouldn't be possible to officiate the games the exact same way in the playoffs as the regular season. The games would take four hours," Kerr said.The Clippers had their own costly moments arguing.Williams and Rivers also were heated late in the first half about no fouls being called.Rivers received a technical leaving the court at halftime and Klay Thompson shot a free throw before the third quarter began."All I want is consistency. That's what I got a tech for at halftime," Rivers said, noting Gallinari said nothing offensive to deserve a technical.TIP-INSClippers: The Clippers were 2 of 10 from deep in the first half, when they had only 13 assists. ... Los Angeles, which has lost four straight on the Warriors' home floor, was outrebounded 53-40.Warriors: Curry notched his fifth career double-digit postseason rebounding game. ... Durant (3,679) passed Dirk Nowitzki (3,663) for 15th place on the career playoff scoring list. ... The Warriors have won seven straight postseason Game 1s and 14 of 15 openers in all — going 16-1 in their first game of a series dating to the 2014-15 season.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressA look at where things stand in the NBA playoff picture, with four days remaining in the regular season:EASTERN CONFERENCEMiami controls its destiny, which sounds good.Miami could also be eliminated on Sunday as well.And Dwyane Wade's "One Last Dance" might end without a playoff berth.The Heat have not dropped four straight games at any point this season. It would be in their best interest for that statement to remain accurate on Sunday, when Miami — losers of three straight — gets the rare noon tip-off at Toronto. If the Heat win, they remain alive regardless of other outcomes. If they lose, it might be over.In fact, the remaining three spots in the Eastern Conference field could be claimed on Sunday. If Miami loses, and Brooklyn wins, and Detroit wins, the field will be set. If Miami wins, then the race is guaranteed to extend to at least Tuesday. And if the Heat go 3-0 in the next four days — after the game at Toronto, they host Philadelphia on Tuesday and visit Brooklyn on Wednesday — they're in the playoffs."You want to win in the playoffs, you have to learn how to win pressure games and games with expectation and consequences during the regular season," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "This can't feel any more like the playoffs right now. Our backs are fully against the wall. I just think this is an awesome experience for our team. You have to find a way to embrace this and rise to the challenge."Philadelphia cut its magic number for clinching the No. 3 spot to one by defeating Chicago on Saturday. In the only other game on the NBA schedule — intentionally made light by the schedule-makers because of the NCAA Final Four going on — Brooklyn went up one spot to sixth, passing Orlando, by holding off Milwaukee on Saturday. The Bucks rested Giannis Antetokounmpo in that one because of a calf issue.But all was not lost for the Magic.Orlando can clinch its first playoff berth since 2012 on Sunday; the Magic would get in if they win at Boston, or if Miami and Charlotte both lose. If the Magic don't beat the Celtics, then Boston would secure a top-four spot and home-court for the first round.WESTERN CONFERENCEOracle Arena will play host to more games. Probably a lot more games, to be honest, unless the Golden State Warriors get stunned in the early rounds of these playoffs.But on Sunday night, the Warriors will play a regular-season game there for the 1,936th, and last, time.And they could close that chapter at their Oakland home in style: A win over the Los Angeles Clippers in the home regular-season finale on Sunday would secure the No. 1 seed in the Western Conference race for the two-time defending NBA champions, who are moving to the brand-new Chase Center in San Francisco starting next season."We've got one more before we can seal up the No. 1 seed and take care of that goal," Warriors star Stephen Curry said. "These next three games are just about finishing the right way. I'm happy with where we are as a team, taking care of our business, and we'll figure out who we're going to play next weekend and we'll go from there."Warriors-Clippers could be the West's headline game Sunday night, though many others will have a say in the seeding races.Denver will look to sweep a home-and-home against the Trail Blazers when the teams meet in Portland. But the Nuggets are sitting Nikola Jokic, Paul Millsap and Jamal Murray to rest, which certainly helps out the Blazers.Houston will be a very big favorite over Phoenix, and the Rockets could still get to No. 2 in the West — the spot currently held by Denver, which cannot slip past No. 3. Portland would be assured of the No. 4 spot with a 3-0 finish, while Utah, San Antonio and Oklahoma City also have games that matter seeding-wise Sunday.SUNDAY'S GAMES— Miami at Toronto: Toronto is the No. 2 seed in the East and still could be No. 2 in the NBA. Miami has almost no more room for error.— San Antonio at Cleveland: This is a game that the Spurs should win, unless for some reason they want Golden State in the first round.— Oklahoma City at Minnesota: See above. Unless the Thunder want to see Golden State in the first round, they likely need to win this one.— Charlotte at Detroit: Pistons aren't as desperate as the Hornets, who need a 3-0 finish and help to get in. Detroit can still get No. 6 seed.— Brooklyn at Indiana: Nets went to 6th on Saturday, and will finish there if they win out. Pacers know they're likely going to be the 5 seed.— Phoenix at Houston: Rockets can still get to No. 2 seed if things break their way. The Suns have lost 239 games in the last four years.— Orlando at Boston: Magic will clinch their first playoff spot since 2012 with a win. Celtics will wrap up home-court for Round 1 with a win.— L.A. Clippers at Golden State: Warriors coach Steve Kerr has won at least 55 games in all five of his seasons. L.A. playing for 6th, 7th or 8th.— Denver at Portland: The resting-up Nuggets still can finish with No. 2 seed. Blazers may get to 3rd seed, trying to hold off Jazz for 4th.— Utah at L.A. Lakers: The Jazz are 31-10 in their last 41 games, yet still might not get home-court for Round 1. Extremely dangerous team.Games with no playoff implications: Dallas at Memphis, Atlanta at Milwaukee, Washington at New York, New Orleans at Sacramento.___CURRENT BRACKETFirst-round matchups if the season ended Saturday ...East: 1-Milwaukee vs. 8-Detroit, 2-Toronto vs. 7-Orlando, 3-Philadelphia vs. 6-Brooklyn, 4-Boston vs. 5-Indiana.West: 1-Golden State vs. 8-San Antonio, 2-Denver vs. 7-Oklahoma City, 3-Houston vs. 6-L.A. Clippers, 4-Portland vs. 5-Utah.___NOTE OF THE DAYNine teams had a 10-game (or longer) winning streak last season. This season, only Golden State has. Utah can get there by winning out.___QUOTE OF THE DAY"We're not satisfied." — Denver coach Michael Malone, after the Nuggets clinched home-court edge for their first playoff series since 2013.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThree perennial powerhouses and an exciting interloper will seek spots in the national final.By Kelly WhitesideTAMPA, Fla. — The Women’s Final Four on Friday will feature three teams that have at least one national title and one team, Oregon, seeking its first. If the Ducks become the champions, they will be the first team from the West Coast to claim the women’s crown since Stanford in 1992.Baylor, a No. 1 seed, returns to the Final Four for the first time since winning the national title in 2012, and it has been a breeze to get here. The Lady Bears rolled over their tournament opponents by an average margin of 38.2 points behind the nation’s best defense and the powerhouse duo of 6-foot-7 Kalani Brown and 6-4 Lauren Cox. This is the first trip to the Final Four for Oregon, a second seed, and it has been a fun one given the Ducks’ spread-the-floor, pick-and-roll style of play. The Ducks have been called the Golden State Warriors of women’s college basketball with their pick and triple-double machine, Sabrina Ionescu, (19.9 points, 8.2 assists and 7.5 rebounds a game) playing the role of Stephen Curry. “She’s an unbelievable talent, and her team is blazing a new trail for her program,” Curry said after the Warriors’ game on Wednesday.The Ducks have the best 3-point shooting in the nation, 41.7 percent. To knock off the Lady Bears, they will need to connect at a similar rate.The best rivalry in the women’s game will play out for the 50th time over all and for the eighth time in the Final Four. UConn, a second seed, leads the series, 37-12, but top-seeded Notre Dame has the edge at the Final Four, 4-3. The Huskies are competing in a record 12th consecutive Final Four and shooting for their 12th national championship. Notre Dame, the defending national champ, is even more talented, and healthier, than last year. Last year, Notre Dame knocked off UConn in overtime in the national semifinals, but the Huskies won a regular-season matchup, 89-71, in December. “Sports needs that kind of rivalry,” UConn Coach Geno Auriemma said. “We used to have that with Tennessee. Now we have it with Notre Dame. I think it’s cool. I think they’re the best team in the country. I don’t think anybody else is even close. Baylor. But I don’t think anybody else, I think, can match Notre Dame when they’re playing their A game. They just overwhelm you, man, at every position.” Notre Dame features the talented backcourt pair of Arike Ogunbowale (21.5 points a game) and Jackie Young (15.1). The UConn seniors Napheesa Collier and Katie Lou Samuelson were freshmen the last time the Huskies won the national title, in 2016, and they are focused on ending their careers with another crown.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Los Angeles Lakers held exit interviews with the media on Wednesday, fresh off a disappointing season and the drama of Tuesday night, when team president Magic Johnson abruptly stepped down before the final game."We had moments where we were really, really good and we had moments where we were really, really bad," forward Brandon Ingram said."Because of what went on throughout the schedule, which was crazy, I think that ultimately helps us out and brings us even closer for next year. I'm not sure who is going to return, but for the guys who are, I know they going to feel that feeling of like we could have won games."But much is up in the air a day after the Lakers ended with a 37-45 record and missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season. Who will run the team? Who will coach the team? Luke Walton, after his third season on the bench, did not meet with the media Wednesday."I think Luke did a hell of a job, with what he had, the cards he was dealt," point guard Rajon Rondo said. "Guys fought every night."The Lakers, who pursued New Orleans Pelicans star Anthony Davis at the trading deadline, will want to make a big offseason splash, which could suit the desires of superstar LeBron James.The Lakers were 20-14 and in fourth place in the Western Conference after beating the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day, when James suffered a groin injury that cost him the next 17 games.Ingram didn't play after March 2 and under underwent thoracic outlet decompression surgery after he was diagnosed with deep venous thrombosis, which involved a blood clot that caused shoulder pain.Point guard Lonzo Ball didn't play after Jan. 19 because of a left ankle injury. He wore a black hat with the words "Don't Forget Me" to his media interview Wednesday."I think those two weeks before I got hurt, I kind of figured it out," said Ball, whose name has been mentioned in trade possibilities. "I felt I was playing the basketball I was capable of playing and unfortunately I got hurt and couldn't come back."The other big question around Ball is whether he will continue to do business with his father, LaVar Ball, and the family's Big Baller Brand."We're still talking about it," Lonzo Ball said. "Right now, I'm not really too focused on that. I'm more focused on just being healthy, getting right for the summer. We'll get around to it."Ball said he looked at James -- who signed a four-year, $154 million deal last offseason -- as a "big brother.""It was a dream come true for me," Ball said of playing with James. "Obviously, his IQ is off the charts, so he's not hard to play with at all."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.He secured his season high in points with a straightaway 3-pointer, his fifth of the game, early in the third quarter for 22 points. That was followed by a rare slam dunk that elicited howls from the crowd and a big smile across Nowitzki's face.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history then drained another jumper for 26 points and an 80-49 Dallas lead. He re-entered the game with three minutes left and hit two more buckets to go 11 of 31 from the floor. He finished with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 32 minutes.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points -- one off his career best -- with 26 coming in the fourth quarter, to get the Suns as close as 105-100 with 4:20 to play.Crawford, 39, became the oldest player ever to score 50-plus points in an NBA game. The old mark was held by Michael Jordan, who was 38 when he scored 51 for the Washington Wizards on Dec. 29, 2001, against the Charlotte Hornets.According to ESPN, Crawford also became the first player to score 50 points for four different franchises (Chicago Bulls, New York Knicks, Golden State Warriors and now Phoenix).The Suns closed out a miserable season, finishing 19-63.A longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery kept Nowitzki out until mid-December. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career, and averaged 6.6 points in less than 15 minutes a game before Tuesday.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted "M-V-P! M-V-P!" Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2006-07 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.The future of the Mavs (33-48), rookie Luka Doncic, also didn't disappoint, notching his eighth triple-double with 21 points, 11 assists and 16 rebounds. He moved into sole possession of third place for most triple-doubles by a rookie.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherHere’s a fact that is pretty obvious. When the point spread on a game is big, the favorite usually wins.In the 39 N.B.A. games since 2003 with a spread of 18 or higher, the favorite won them all, according to the Teamrankings.com database.It wasn’t quite an 18-point spread when the Golden State Warriors faced the Phoenix Suns on Sunday night, but it was close. Depending on where you gamble, the Warriors were favored by 16 to 17 points. Games in that range are still won by the favorites 97 percent of the time.Few should have been surprised by the big line on Sunday. The Suns are bad, going into the game with a record of 15-52, worse than anyone but the Knicks. And the Warriors are the Warriors. Not only that, but the game was being played at Golden State.The chance of an upset had shrunk from microscopic to infinitesimal at the 2:58 mark of the first quarter when the Warriors led by 16 points. A ho-hum blowout seemed to be in the offing.The Suns won the game.Devin Booker had 37 points and 11 assists in the shocking victory. “We came in, we fought, we were down 16,” forward Kelly Oubre Jr. told The Arizona Republic. “We still fought. We came up with a big win against the best team in the N.B.A.”The Suns are actually on a bit of a roll, having won five of their last seven. Don’t start checking the playoff race though: Those wins came immediately after a franchise-worst 17-game losing streak.And cynical Suns fans don’t have to worry either. The team is still three games away from slipping out of the bottom three, the teams that have an equal chance of nabbing the No. 1 pick in the draft, probably Zion Williamson of Duke.It was the first Suns win over the Warriors since November 2014. That was 18 straight games of futility against Golden State, the longest active losing streak by one team against another.Klay Thompson of the Warriors (10-for-22 for 28 points) had a curious take afterward, pointing a finger at the home fans. “I expect our crowd to be a little more into it,” he said. “At least you could stand up or something when we make a good play, especially at the beginning. We need that energy, especially at this time of year. Its hard to conjure up energy every single night.”The Warriors, who have the third best record in the league but are still the heavy championship favorites, had better get some energy in a hurry. They now go on a four-game road trip with a much tougher lineup of foes, starting with the Houston Rockets and Oklahoma City Thunder. Their top seed in the West — they are currently a game and a half ahead of the Denver Nuggets — could be under threat.The Suns will miss the playoffs for the ninth straight year (the second longest streak after the Kings). But they will always have the night they won as 17-point underdogs. Outright.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHere are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherSo much for easing back in.In his first game since Christmas to let a groin injury heal, LeBron James played 40 minutes and came an assist short of a triple-double as the Los Angeles Lakers beat the Los Angeles Clippers, 123-120, in overtime on Thursday night.James had missed 17 games, the longest absence of his N.B.A. career, after injuring his groin in the holiday game against the Golden State Warriors. Initially expected to sit out only a few games, James was forced to miss five weeks when the injury lingered.The Lakers were 20-14 at the time of his injury, and even won the Christmas game after he left in the third quarter, but they were 6-11 without him and now stand in the ninth spot in the Western Conference, just out of the playoff picture.The overtime win on Thursday was doubly meaningful because it came against the Clippers, who occupy the eighth spot, currently one game ahead of their in-city rivals.The Lakers were cagey about James’s status for the game, listing him as “doubtful” and not announcing his participation until an hour and a half before game time despite widespread suspicion he would play.There was nothing doubtful about his performance. James finished with 24 points along with 14 rebounds and 9 assists, all game highs.“Being out five weeks, I’m feeling it right now,” James told reporters. “I wish I could click my shoes together right now and be home in my bed.”Lakers Coach Luke Walton told The Los Angeles Times: “Wasn’t looking to play LeBron 40 minutes tonight, but that’s just kind of the way the game played out.”While James’s return performance reinforces the narrative that he is a timeless superstar, making the N.B.A. finals year after year, the injury is a reminder that he is 34, and the window for greatness in Los Angeles will not be open forever.With that in mind, Los Angeles is very interested in acquiring a superstar to complement James, specifically Anthony Davis of the Pelicans, who is interested in moving on. Davis was fined $50,000 this week after his agent, Rich Paul, spoke too freely about trades. Paul was at the Lakers game on Thursday night.Davis has been dealing with an injury of his own, to his finger, which has caused him to miss the last six games.The N.B.A. trade deadline is Thursday.An earlier version of this article misidentified the person who was fined for an N.B.A. agent’s public comments about trades. The player, Anthony Davis, was fined for the remarks, not his agent, Rich Paul.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — Oklahoma City wanted a win to avoid slipping into a first-round playoff matchup against the defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors.The Milwaukee Bucks, with the NBA's best record already clinched, just needed to stay healthy.Everybody got what they wanted Wednesday night.Russell Westbrook posted his 34th triple-double of the season and the Thunder beat the Bucks' backups 127-116 to lock up the sixth seed in the Western Conference playoffs.Oklahoma City (49-33) played without injured Paul George, but Westbrook, Jerami Grant and Dennis Schroder led a hot-shooting effort. Oklahoma City made a franchise-record 23 3-pointers and handed out a franchise-best 40 assists, converting 48 of 99 shots to win their fifth in a row."Good teams always respond," Schroder said. "We do whatever it takes to go out there and compete and play with each other. We live with the result."Now the playoffs come. Now everybody is excited."Westbrook had 15 points, 17 assists and 11 rebounds. He moved into a tie with Magic Johnson for second place on the career triple-double list with 138, behind only Oscar Robertson (181)."It's a blessing," Westbrook said.Schroder was 8-of-15 shooting beyond the arc and had a game-leading 32 points. Grant hit four 3s and added a career-high 28 points.The Bucks (60-22) rested star Giannis Antetokounmpo and some other key players. They found out moments after the game that they would face eighth-seeded Detroit in the first round of the playoffs.The Pistons secured a playoff berth with a win over the New York Knicks on Wednesday.Khris Middleton was the only usual Bucks starter in the starting five, and he scored 21 points in 17 minutes.Point guard Tim Frazier scored a career-high 29 points and added 13 assists for Milwaukee and D.J. Wilson had a career-high 18 points while grabbing 17 rebounds. Rookie Bonzie Colson started and scored 21 points.Middleton said the Bucks are more confident entering the playoffs than they have been in the past. The franchise has not won a playoff series since the 2000-01 season and has not had homecourt advantage in the first round in the last eight first-round series."First place in the league, 60 wins, and we have homecourt," Middleton said. "Forget about the things in the past in some ways. Just keep moving forward."The Bucks finished tied for the third-best record in franchise history and their best since the 1980-81 season."We're just trying to soak it all in right now," said Bucks guard Eric Bledsoe, who was held out Wednesday. "We went through a lot of adversity to get to this point. I'm really proud of this group."TIP-INSThunder: Oklahoma City faced a waiting game to find out its first-round playoff foe. The Thunder had a chance to face Denver, Houston or Portland, depending on results of Wednesday's late games. George did not play after aggravating a right shoulder injury in the Thunder's 112-111 victory over Houston on Tuesday night. George hit the game-winning 3-pointer vs. the Rockets with 1.8 seconds left.Bucks: Antetokounmpo and Brook Lopez sat out the season finale for load management, and point guard Eric Bledsoe did not play. It was the first game Lopez missed after starting all 81 games and it was the 10th game Antetokounmpo missed. ... F Nikola Mirotic could be ready for the start of the playoffs this weekend. Mirotic suffered a fractured left thumb against the Los Angeles Lakers on March 19 and did not play in the final 11 regular-season games. ... G Tony Snell (left ankle sprain) is unlikely to return at the start of the playoffs. Sterling Brown will keep his spot in the starting lineup.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressChris Mullin stepped down as the men’s basketball coach at St. John’s on Tuesday after four years on the job, citing a personal loss.Mike Cragg, the St. John’s athletic director, announced the decision, saying the team had “progressed well” and noting Mullin’s “deep passion for this program.” Cragg did not give an explanation for the move.Without elaborating, Mullin said in a separate statement that he had suffered a “recent personal loss.” His older brother, Roddy, a former Siena basketball player, died last month at 58 after battling cancer for years.Mullin, 55, had two years remaining on his contract, and he had just completed his only winning season and only trip to the N.C.A.A. tournament as the St. John’s coach, losing to Arizona State in the First Four.Mullin, the greatest player in St. John’s history, said his decision had been extremely emotional.“I took time to reflect upon my true values and believe this is the right time to make a change,” Mullin said in the statement. “I am extremely grateful to the administration, which has supported me and our basketball program on every level.”Cragg said St. John’s would pursue an experienced coach “committed to building a championship-level program” and “ready to build upon the recent successes of our program with integrity by recruiting young men of high character.”Bobby Hurley, a New Jersey native who is Arizona State’s coach, is reportedly considered a top candidate to replace Mullin. Hurley was a star point guard at Duke, where Cragg spent more than three decades as an administrator before being hired by St. John’s in September.The Red Storm went 59-73 under Mullin, including 20-52 in the Big East Conference, after he replaced Steve Lavin in March 2015 and embarked on a substantial rebuild.Bobby Gempesaw, the president of St. John’s, said that because of Mullin the “university community has grown closer, there has been excitement throughout campus.”Led by guard Shamorie Ponds and several talented transfers, the Red Storm won their first 12 games this past season for their best start since 1982-83, when Mullin was a sophomore. They cracked The Associated Press Top 25 poll for the first time in four years but faded down the stretch, losing five of their final six games and six of the last eight to finish at 21-13.Once a national power, the St. John’s program has not won an N.C.A.A. tournament game since 2000.After the season-ending loss to Arizona State, Ponds announced that he would pass up his senior season to enter the N.B.A. draft. Also the team’s top recruiter, Matt Abdelmassih, left for a job at Nebraska, and Cam Mack, a junior college point guard, asked to be released from the national letter of intent he had signed with St. John’s.Mullin, a two-time Olympic gold medalist and a member of the Basketball Hall of Fame, led St. John’s to the 1985 Final Four and remains the school’s career scoring leader. Born in Brooklyn, he was a five-time All-Star during his 16 seasons in the N.B.A., with the Golden State Warriors and the Indiana Pacers.Before taking the job at his alma mater to much fanfare, Mullin had no head coaching experience. He had been an N.B.A. executive, serving as general manager of the Warriors and a special adviser with the Sacramento Kings. His coaching tenure was highlighted by consecutive victories over top-five teams in February 2018: Duke and No. 1 Villanova, the eventual national champion.St. John’s still ranks among the top 10 N.C.A.A. Division I men’s teams in wins, though the school has not advanced beyond the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament since 2000.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThe Golden State Warriors are set to begin their quest for a third straight title, and this time it's up to someone else to try to stop them.With LeBron James gone to the West and this year gone entirely from the postseason, the Eastern Conference headquarters for the NBA Finals won't be in his home for the first time since 2010.He played for the title for eight straight years, which may have been great for the TV ratings but lately wasn't much good for the competition. The Warriors swept Cleveland last year after winning 4-1 in 2017.Teams are lining up to seize his old spot atop the East, all capable of providing the intrigue that was absent the last couple years.There's Milwaukee, with Giannis Antetokounmpo in position to exit June fully atop the NBA with a title and an MVP award.Or Toronto, humiliated by the Cavaliers in the last two years but armed now with a former NBA Finals MVP in Kawhi Leonard.It could be Philadelphia, with Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons anchoring perhaps the most talented starting five outside of the Bay Area.And don't forget Boston, the presumptive East favorite in the preseason that can still live up to expectations.The best player is gone, but maybe things will be better."I think the parity and the competition in the East, and not knowing and everyone having a sincere chance maybe in the East that did not, when not you look between Toronto, Boston, Philadelphia," TNT analyst Chris Webber said. "All of those story lines, new young stars that's coming in."The long road to get to the finals begins Saturday with four games, including the top-seeded Warriors against the Los Angeles Clippers in the West. No. 2 Denver faces No. 7 San Antonio in the other West opener, while No. 3 Philadelphia meets No. 6 Brooklyn, and No. 2 Toronto takes on No. 7 Orlando in the East.On Sunday, the overall No. 1 seed Bucks face No. 8 Detroit, and No. 4 Boston hosts No. 5 Indiana in the East. In the West, No. 3 Portland and No. 6 Oklahoma City meet in a matchup of Northwest Division rivals, and No. 4 Houston and No. 5 Utah square off in the opener of a series between two of the strongest teams in the second half of the season.It's the start of postseason that looks different far beyond just the absence of James for the first time since 2005.It includes Denver, in the playoffs for the first time since 2013. Brooklyn is a playoff team for the first time since 2015 and Orlando is back for the first time since 2012.The Warriors, of course, haven't just been going to the postseason every year, but getting all the way to the finals once they do. They've done that four straight years, winning three of them, and with a strong finish after some occasional lapses surged to the best record in the West.Still, this playoff path could provide them plenty of obstacles. The Warriors may need to get by scoring champion James Harden and the Rockets, who took them to a seventh game last year in the conference finals, just to get back to that round this time."It doesn't matter who you play in the playoffs, you're going to get tested. Everybody's good," Golden State coach Steve Kerr said.Get out of the West, and the Warriors may have to then get on a plane. They had home-court advantage in all four finals against Cleveland, but Milwaukee and Toronto both finished with better records and would host Games 1 and 2 if they win the East.And there could be the distractions about their future, with Kevin Durant and Klay Thompson able to become free agents this summer.The Warriors wouldn't be alone when dealing with that. Toronto (Leonard), Philadelphia (Jimmy Butler and Tobias Harris) and Boston (Kyrie Irving) all will be trying to win a title with players who could then leave them.But those are issues for July. First, it's all about just getting to June."It's a great feeling," Bucks All-Star Khris Middleton said. "Playoffs don't always come around. I've been a part of that couple years but it's been a great season so far. I know guys been itching to get to this first playoff game."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — He's Kevin Durant, and the Los Angeles Clippers got reminded of it.Durant scored 38 points, Stephen Curry added 21 playing with five fouls, and the Golden State Warriors dominated from the opening tip to win 132-105 Thursday night and take a 2-1 lead in their first-round playoff series."He came out super-aggressive, in kill mode," teammate Draymond Green said of Durant. "That was all the difference for us. We took control of the game right there in the first quarter and never lost control of it."The Warriors began the game on a 22-9 tear and went on to shoot 73% from the floor in the first, taking the crowd out of it early.Durant was perfect, making all five of his field goals and both free throws for 12 points. He and Curry picked up two fouls each, but the Warriors still built a 19-point lead."As much momentum as we lost in the final 16 minutes of Game 2, we got it all back early," Curry said. "Everybody was aggressive, decisive, getting good shots on every possession. The way we went about our business was the sign of a resilient team."Game 4 is Sunday at Staples Center.Kevon Looney, again filling in for injured DeMarcus Cousins, shot 4 for 4 in the first, dunking three times in a row.Durant had 27 points at halftime despite not making a 3-pointer.Golden State coach Steve Kerr had said he wanted Durant shooting much more than the eight times he did in Game 2. When relayed his coach's comment earlier in the week, Durant replied, "I don't play like that. I'm Kevin Durant. You know who I am."The Clippers won Game 2 on the road after trailing by 31 points in the third quarter, stunning the Warriors with the largest comeback in NBA playoff history.But they couldn't find the basket this time, shooting 37% from the floor."They dissected us," Clippers coach Doc Rivers said. "You kind of felt they were going to come in and throw a punch, and we just didn't respond."The Clippers' only starter in double figures was rookie Ivica Zubac, who finished with 18 points after playing most of the fourth. Patrick Beverley, a defensive pest guarding Durant in Game 2, was limited to six points, four fouls, one rebound and no assists in 18 minutes.Lou Williams had 16 points, and Montrezl Harrell and JaMychal Green added 15 each off the bench.Los Angeles never led and failed to put together any kind of sustained run."We just got our (rear) kicked," Williams said. "That's it."Golden State's biggest run came in the third at the same time Curry was whistled for his fourth foul. The Warriors scored 14 straight points to lead 88-57. Durant and Green got hit with offsetting technicals during the spurt. Durant laughed it off and sank a jumper from the left corner seconds later."We were conversing about the play that happened before. Somebody came out of nowhere and checked us both," Durant said. "That was pretty quick. Hopefully they rescind that one because I don't want anybody to think that somebody's in my head, that's why I got that tech."The Warriors extended the margin to 35 on Alfonzo McKinnie's 3-pointer late in the period.TIP-INSWarriors: Curry is five 3-pointers away from become the first player to make 400 postseason 3s. ... They controlled the boards, 50-43, led by Andrew Bogut with 14. ... They had 35 assists.Clippers: Kentucky coach John Calipari sat in the second row to support his former player Shai Gilgeous-Alexander, who finished with seven points. ... Floyd Mayweather, Meek Mill, Scottie Pippen and Sheila E. with her dad Pete Escovedo were in the crowd.AWAY FROM HOMEThe Warriors set an NBA record by winning at least one road game in each of their last 20 playoff series.HE SAID IT"I took a little vacation in the second half." — Curry on his foul trouble.CASH AND CARRYThe $2,000 that Rivers dropped on the street in San Francisco earlier in the week was his per diem while on the road. A man picked up the dough and caught up to Rivers to return it."They give you cash these days," the coach said. "Maybe we need to go back the other way."UP NEXTGame 4 is Sunday in Los Angeles.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. It came after Boston had rallied from a 0-3 deficit to defeat the Yankees to claim the best of seven American League championship.-Sailing: 2013 Oracle Team USA. The defending champions retain the America's Cup by winning seven consecutive races against New Zealand in San Francisco Bay after trailing eight races to one and facing elimination with one more loss. -Cricket: 2001 India. India were down and out as they were asked to follow on by Australian captain Steve Waugh in the second test in Kolkata in 2001. With the tourists holding a 274-run lead and a 1-0 advantage in the series, Waugh's decision appeared to be vindicated when India slumped to 3-115 in their second innings.However, a remarkable 281 by VVS Laxman and 180 by Rahul Dravid steered India to an exhilerating 171-run victory.India went on to triumph 2-1 in the series.-Soccer: 2012 Manchester City: Manchester City appeared to be suffering a dramatic collapse when they trailed Queens Park Rangers 2-1 on the final day of the season. But two stoppage-time goals just before the final whistle completed a 3–2 win over QPR and secured City the English top-flight title for the first time in 44 years. It was the first time the Premier League title was decided on goal difference. City's game-winning goal against QPR came 15 seconds after their cross-town rivals Manchester United had thought, albeit very briefly, that they had won the league title after defeating Sunderland 1–0.-Basketball: 2016 Cleveland Cavaliers: LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers end 52 years of Cleveland sports agony when they defeat the Golden State Warriors 93-89 in Game Seven of the NBA Finals. Cleveland major sports teams had not won a championship since Jim Brown led the Cleveland Browns to the National Football League title in 1964.-Soccer: 2005 Liverpool. Trailing by three goals at halftime against favourites AC Milan in the Champions League final, Liverpool scored three goals in a dramatic six-minute spell to draw level. They then went on to win their fifth European Cup by defeating the Italians 3-2 on penalties.-Cricket: 1981 England. England were 1-0 down in the Ashes series against Australia after two tests. With odds of 500-1 against England midway through their second innings at Headingley, Ian Botham struck 149 not out and Bob Willis took eight for 43 to pull off the unlikeliest of victories. England went on to win the series, dubbed Botham's Ashes, 3-1.-Soccer: 1968 Manchester United. A decade after Manchester United lost eight players in the 1958 Munich air disaster on the way home from a European Cup quarter-final victory against Red Star Belgrade, they became the first English club to win the European Cup, beating Benfica 4–1 in the final.  (Compiled by Pritha Sarkar and Gene Cherry, editing by Pritha Sarkar)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOpening day of the NBA postseason was no time to be home.Not home for the summer. Home for a game.Only the Golden State Warriors managed to win there Saturday in a rough day for the higher seeds. Both No. 2s lost, and the Brooklyn Nets won the game and the crowd in Philadelphia, where home fans turned on the third-seeded 76ers during an ugly performance.The 76ers will try to straighten things out when they host Game 2 on Monday, and the Warriors will try for more smooth sailing against the Clippers at Oracle Arena in the only other game scheduled.The Nets got the surprises started right from the very first game of the postseason when they beat the 76ers 111-102. Things couldn't have gone much worse for the Sixers, who couldn't quiet Brooklyn's guards or their own fans. The booing started early and grew stronger as the game went on, with Philadelphia All-Star Ben Simmons critical of the fans after being held to nine points while counterpart D'Angelo Russell had 26."We know that Game 2 will definitely be a lot harder for us," Nets guard Caris LeVert said. "We're ready for the challenge."Toronto was edged by Orlando, and Denver went down to San Antonio. But the Warriors made sure their home-court advantage didn't go to waste by beating the Clippers 121-104, getting their offense rolling early and keeping it going."Every game is different too," Stephen Curry said, "so who knows what will happen Game 2 and beyond."___Nets at 76ers, Brooklyn leads 1-0. Game 2, 8 p.m. EDT, TNT.NEED TO KNOW: The Nets will be trying for their first 2-0 lead in a series since going up 2-0 against the New York Knicks en route to a first-round sweep in 2004.KEEP AN EYE ON: The benches. Philadelphia may have one of the best starting fives in the NBA, but there's going to be an awful lot of pressure on the starters if the bench gets blown out as badly as in Game 1, when the Nets' reserves had a 59-28 scoring advantage.INJURY UPDATE: Joel Embiid is listed as questionable after he was doubtful on the eve of Game 1 with his sore knee. Nets veterans Ed Davis (sprained right ankle) and Jared Dudley (tight right calf) are being listed as questionable, though Davis said he expected to play after finishing with 12 points and 16 rebounds in the opener.PRESSURE IS ON: Simmons. Maybe he doesn't need to outplay high school teammate Russell, but the 76ers probably can't afford for LeVert (23 points) and Spencer Dinwiddie (18) to outplay him, too.___Clippers at Warriors, Golden State leads 1-0. Game 2, 10:30 p.m. EDT, TNT.NEED TO KNOW: Patrick Beverley and Kevin Durant insisted after their ejections in Game 1 they were just having fun and trash-talking in the heat of the playoffs. Whether those high emotions spill into Game 2 will be something to monitor considering if the two-time defending champion Warriors make a deep run again, Durant already has two technicals with seven bringing on an automatic suspension."Nah, I can control myself," Durant said, unconcerned.The officials heard their share of arguing from both sides."I thought the ejection was too quick, especially being playoff basketball," Clippers guard Lou Williams said. "Everybody knows what Pat brings to the table and the type of competitor that he is. It might have went quick because of the back and forth they had right before that, but I thought it was quick. I think both guys were competing, and that was it."KEEP AN EYE ON: The Warriors blocked 14 shots in Game 1, getting three each by Durant, Klay Thompson and Andre Iguodala. That was their most all season and tied a franchise playoff high also done on April 27, 1989, at Utah in the first round.COUSINS' NEXT CHANCE: DeMarcus Cousins fouled out of his playoff debut after a nine-year wait, so the big man will be looking to bounce back from a disappointing playoff opener in which he had nine points, nine rebounds and four assists. He returned Jan. 18 against the Clippers after a nearly yearlong absence recovering from a torn left Achilles tendon that required surgery while he was with New Orleans."I don't need to say anything to DeMarcus. It was a frustrating night for him, fouling out, a couple tough calls," coach Steve Kerr said. "But it was important for him to get his feet wet and feel the playoffs, feel the energy, and I have no doubt he'll come back and play a lot better in Game 2."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - A list of some of sport's greatest comebacks after Tiger Woods ended an 11-year major championship drought with victory at The Masters on Sunday:INDIVIDUALSGolf: 2019 Tiger Woods. The American superstar wins his fifth Masters to claim his first major championship in 11 years.The triumph completed a remarkable comeback for Woods following years of surgeries and personal problems that convinced many that the American would never again win one of golf's four majors. The title, his 15th, moves him to within three of all-time leader Jack Nicklaus.-Tennis: 2017 Roger Federer. The Swiss, ranked 17th in the world, arrived at the Australian Open in January with minimal expectations after missing the last six months of the 2016 season with a knee injury. No one expected him to end his five-year barren run at the slams at Melbourne Park but incredibly, the then 35-year-old came from a break down in the fifth set to beat his great rival Rafael Nadal in the final. It handed Federer a record-extending 18th grand slam title. He has since won two more majors to take his haul to 20.-NFL: 2016 Peyton Manning. After neck surgery almost ended his National Football League career in 2011, Manning was back in the Super Bowl, leading the Denver Broncos to a 24-10 victory over the Carolina Panthers.-Tennis: 1999 Andre Agassi. The American was ranked 141st in the world at the end of 1997 but two years later he was world number one in year that included his victory in the 1999 French Open over Andrei Medvedev. TEAMSBaseball: 2004 Boston Red Sox. The Major League Baseball team erases an 86-year drought that was called the Curse of the Bambino when they won their first World Series title since 1918 after trading Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. It came after Boston had rallied from a 0-3 deficit to defeat the Yankees to claim the best of seven American League championship.-Sailing: 2013 Oracle Team USA. The defending champions retain the America's Cup by winning seven consecutive races against New Zealand in San Francisco Bay after trailing eight races to one and facing elimination with one more loss. -Cricket: 2001 India. India were down and out as they were asked to follow on by Australian captain Steve Waugh in the second test in Kolkata in 2001. With the tourists holding a 274-run lead and a 1-0 advantage in the series, Waugh's decision appeared to be vindicated when India slumped to 3-115 in their second innings.However, a remarkable 281 by VVS Laxman and 180 by Rahul Dravid steered India to an exhilerating 171-run victory.India went on to triumph 2-1 in the series.-Soccer: 2012 Manchester City: Manchester City appeared to be suffering a dramatic collapse when they trailed Queens Park Rangers 2-1 on the final day of the season. But two stoppage-time goals just before the final whistle completed a 3–2 win over QPR and secured City the English top-flight title for the first time in 44 years. It was the first time the Premier League title was decided on goal difference. City's game-winning goal against QPR came 15 seconds after their cross-town rivals Manchester United had thought, albeit very briefly, that they had won the league title after defeating Sunderland 1–0.-Basketball: 2016 Cleveland Cavaliers: LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers end 52 years of Cleveland sports agony when they defeat the Golden State Warriors 93-89 in Game Seven of the NBA Finals. Cleveland major sports teams had not won a championship since Jim Brown led the Cleveland Browns to the National Football League title in 1964.-Soccer: 2005 Liverpool. Trailing by three goals at halftime against favourites AC Milan in the Champions League final, Liverpool scored three goals in a dramatic six-minute spell to draw level. They then went on to win their fifth European Cup by defeating the Italians 3-2 on penalties.-Cricket: 1981 England. England were 1-0 down in the Ashes series against Australia after two tests. With odds of 500-1 against England midway through their second innings at Headingley, Ian Botham struck 149 not out and Bob Willis took eight for 43 to pull off the unlikeliest of victories. England went on to win the series, dubbed Botham's Ashes, 3-1.-Soccer: 1968 Manchester United. A decade after Manchester United lost eight players in the 1958 Munich air disaster on the way home from a European Cup quarter-final victory against Red Star Belgrade, they became the first English club to win the European Cup, beating Benfica 4–1 in the final.  (Compiled by Pritha Sarkar and Gene Cherry, editing by Pritha Sarkar)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOAKLAND, Calif. — Soaking in the franchise's nostalgia of yesteryear, Stephen Curry scored 27 points and helped the Golden State Warriors clinch the Western Conference's top seed with a win in their final regular-season game at Oracle Arena, beating the Los Angeles Clippers 131-104 on Sunday night for a fifth straight victory.Kevin Durant added 16 points and seven assists, making six of seven field goals, as the Warriors players opted to honor the past by sporting throwback white "We Believe" jerseys worn during the 2007 playoff run that snapped a 12-year postseason drought.A banner commemorating 47 years at Oracle was unveiled afterward and it will move across the bay to hang inside new Chase Center in San Francisco where the Warriors will play next season."Let me just say that for 47 years, Warriors fans have stuck with us through thick and thin," coach Steve Kerr told fans moments after the final buzzer, also thanking the arena staff. "Let's be honest, most of those years have been a little thin."Landry Shamet scored 17 points with five 3-pointers for a Clippers team still missing Patrick Beverley because of a right hip pointer. Los Angeles dropped into a seventh-place tie with San Antonio in the Western Conference by losing its third straight. Now, the Clippers play the Jazz in the regular-season finale Wednesday and with various scenarios very well could be returning to Oracle next weekend for Game 1 in the first round of the playoffs.Draymond Green just missed a triple-double with 10 points, 10 rebounds and nine assists in Golden State's seventh win over the last eight games and fifth in a row at home. DeMarcus Cousins contributed 12 points, nine boards and four assists playing with foul trouble.Even with the playoffs around the corner, this was a night of celebrating the end of a nearly five-decade run in the arena."Are they not going to make the playoffs?" Clippers coach Doc Rivers quipped. "I hope they don't make it. That would be phenomenal. I'm just saying, it would be."The Warriors beat the Clippers for the 16th time in the last 18 matchups and 15th in 17 at home.Golden State made 10 of its first 13 shots — Durant hitting his initial four and Curry starting 3 for 3. Curry wound up just 3 for 10 from deep.HONORING ORACLEThe Warriors played their 1,936th regular-season game at Oracle, where the first game was held on Oct. 24, 1967, against Cincinnati. Golden State's overall record in the venue: 1,166-770."Since it's not really the last game here, I know it's a ceremonial final game, I didn't get too sentimental or emotional or anything because hopefully we will be coming back here and playing a lot more games in the next couple months," Kerr said. "I'll probably hold off onto the emotion until it actually happens."Kerr narrated an appreciation video to fans and the arena on a night old favorites such as Sleepy Floyd, Rick Barry, Adonal Foyle and Marreese Speights were on hand for the festivities.The Oakland Symphony performed at halftime as more highlights played.TIP-INSClippers: Rivers would like to play the Warriors in the playoffs, just not in the first round. "If you want to win, you've got to play somebody at some point. We're not dodging," Rivers said. "I just want to be healthy and playing great in the playoffs. Do we want to play the Warriors in the playoffs? Yes. Do we want to do it in the first round? Probably not, but you've got to take it when you get it." ... Los Angeles is 0-4 without Beverley, who missed his third straight game. ... All five starters reached double figures.Warriors: A tribute to Al Attles was shown on the big screen during a first-quarter timeout for his selection into the Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame. Attles, a former player, coach, general manager with the Warriors and current ambassador, hasn't been well enough to attend games this season but received an ovation. ... Cousins received his third foul 6:49 before halftime on a debatable charge. ... Shaun Livingston, who had been questionable with a bruised left knee, made all four of his shots in 13 minutes. ... Every Warriors player scored. ... Andre Iguodala sat out with a sore left toe. ... Golden State finished 30-11 at home and 19-7 against the Western Conference.UP NEXTClippers: Host Utah on Wednesday.Warriors: At New Orleans on Tuesday to start a back-to-back to conclude the season at Memphis on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — The last spot in the NBA playoffs went to the Detroit Pistons.Their reward: A series against MVP candidate Giannis Antetokounmpo and the Milwaukee Bucks.The drama of the regular season went all the way to the very end of the regular season, with seven of the eight first-round playoff matchups not being clinched until the final night was in the books — the last three of them, out West, going down to literally the final moments.The two-time defending champion Golden State Warriors will start their quest for a fourth title in five years against the Los Angeles Clippers."It's not going to be as easy as people think it is," Warriors star Kevin Durant said.That's the beauty of the playoffs. It's not supposed to be easy.First-round games in all eight series will be played starting Saturday and Sunday. The second round cannot begin until April 27 at the earliest, the conference finals couldn't start before May 12 and the NBA Finals will start on May 30.EASTERN CONFERENCEThe only matchup in the NBA that was set before Wednesday night was No. 4 Boston against No. 5 Indiana.Everything else, just like all the West matchups, fell into place during Game 82s on Wednesday.The Bucks, the NBA's top overall seed, play the Pistons. No. 2 Toronto draws No. 7 Orlando, with the Magic in the postseason for the first time since 2012. And No. 3 Philadelphia — a team wrapped in intrigue right now — will face No. 6 Brooklyn.Joel Embiid played in only 10 of the 76ers' 24 games since the All-Star break, and general manager Elton Brand told reporters Wednesday that "it is possible" the team's best scorer and rebounder won't be ready to start the playoffs.Embiid isn't the only injury situation that made headlines Wednesday: The Celtics announced that Marcus Smart will miss four to six weeks with an injury to his left oblique — a massive blow to Boston.WESTERN CONFERENCEPortland rallied from 28 points down on Wednesday against Sacramento — which blew a lead that large for the second time this season.Denver finished on a 15-0 run to beat Minnesota.And with that, the West bracket was shaken up one last time before it was finally set.Top-seeded Golden State will face the eighth-seeded Clippers, a matchup that was known after early results Wednesday. The rest went right down to the wire, with No. 2 Denver facing No. 7 San Antonio, No. 3 Portland getting No. 6 Oklahoma City and No. 4 Houston facing No. 5 Utah. It was a worst-case for Houston, which entered the season's final night in place to finish second, third or fourth in the West.The way the results fell means the Rockets, if they get past the Jazz, would likely see the Warriors in the second round — and not in the Western Conference finals. So there will be no rematch of last year's title series out West, a tussle where the Rockets had a 3-2 series lead before Chris Paul's hamstring balked and the Warriors went on to advance and reach the NBA Finals.The Nuggets clinched the No. 2 seed with their big rally to top the Timberwolves. The Blazers got to the No. 3 spot with their wild comeback to beat the Kings. The combination of those results dropped Houston to the No. 4 seed.SATURDAY SCHEDULEAll times EasternBrooklyn at Philadelphia, 2:30 p.m.Orlando at Toronto, 5 p.m.L.A. Clippers at Golden State, 8 p.m.San Antonio at Denver, 10:30 p.m.SUNDAY SCHEDULEAll times EasternIndiana at Boston, 1 p.m.Oklahoma City at Portland, 3:30 p.m.Detroit at Milwaukee, 7 p.m.Utah at Houston, 9:30 p.m.SCORING MARKNBA teams averaged 111.2 points this season, the 11th-highest mark in league history.It's also the highest scoring clip in the league since 1970-71.Records were set for 3-pointers made and attempted for the seventh straight season, along with total points for the fifth time in the last six years. NBA teams scored 273,573 points this season, fueled by new rules that allowed offenses more freedom of movement, a league-wide commitment to playing at a faster pace — and the still-growing love affair with the 3-pointer.In the 2012-13 season, NBA teams averaged 20 attempts from 3-point range — which was a record at that time. This season, they averaged 32 attempted 3s per game.FAREWELLA pair of legends played for the final time Wednesday night — and went out in style.Dwyane Wade had a triple-double for Miami at Brooklyn, 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists. Dirk Nowitzki had 20 points and 10 rebounds for Dallas at San Antonio.The Heat and Mavericks both lost, which was irrelevant to both clubs. The nights were about Wade and Nowitzki, both All-Stars this season.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Niraj ChokshiAt least three members of the New England Patriots have said they won’t go to the White House if invited to celebrate their Super Bowl victory.In separate interviews, Duron Harmon, Jason McCourty and Devin McCourty all said that they would decline a visit. While none said why, President Trump has long polarized professional athletes, especially after his attacks on Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback, and other players protesting police brutality and racial injustice.In an interview after Sunday night’s game, Mr. Harmon, a safety, told a TMZ Sports reporter that he would not go if invited. “They don’t want me in the White House,” he said.When the interviewer asked if Mr. Harmon would try to see former President Barack Obama instead, Mr. Harmon suggested that he would.“Hey Obama, man, come holler at me,” he said. “We love you over here.”In an interview with The Associated Press, the twin McCourty brothers also said they would probably skip a trip to Washington.Presidents traditionally invite championship-winning teams to the White House to celebrate their victories, though Mr. Trump has rescinded at least two such offers after players publicly said they would not attend.Last year, he withdrew an invitation for the Super Bowl-champion Philadelphia Eagles after it became clear that nearly all of the players and coaches would boycott the visit. In 2017, Mr. Trump rescinded another such offer to the Golden State Warriors after one member of the N.B.A. team, Stephen Curry, suggested he would not attend.The protesting players and coaches have typically declined such visits because of Mr. Trump’s policies and statements, particularly his attacks on Mr. Kaepernick, who famously began kneeling during the national anthem at games in 2016 in protest of police brutality toward African-Americans.The Patriots, however, have a more complicated relationship with the president.The team’s owner, Robert K. Kraft, is a longtime supporter of Mr. Trump and considers him a friend, though Mr. Kraft did criticize the president for his response to the protests during the national anthem. Bill Belichick, the team’s coach, wrote a letter of support to Mr. Trump days before he won the 2016 election. And Tom Brady, the team’s star quarterback, has long faced questions about his relationship with Mr. Trump, whom he has known for years.When Mr. Trump invited the Patriots to the White House after their 2017 Super Bowl victory, at least two dozen players skipped the event, including Mr. Brady, who said he was spending time with his ailing mother. Mr. Harmon and Devin McCourty also did not attend, while Jason McCourty was not yet a member of the team.At the time, a Patriots spokesman said that 34 players had attended the 2017 White House event, a turnout similar to events hosted by President George W. Bush in 2004 and 2005. When Mr. Obama hosted the team in 2015, nearly 50 players showed up.The spokesman cited another factor that could affect attendance: the Patriots’ frequent Super Bowl wins. Now, veteran players on a team that has won three championships in five years could find a White House visit less special, regardless of who occupies the Oval Office.And Mr. Trump may be a lightning rod, but he is not the only president to face a protest from an athlete. In 2012, Boston Bruins goaltender Tim Thomas declined to attend a White House event hosted by Mr. Obama in protest of what he described as a federal government that had “grown out of control.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Vast upheaval within the Los Angeles Lakers organization continued on Friday afternoon when the team announced that Luke Walton was stepping down as coach.The Lakers said in a statement that Walton and the team had “mutually agreed to part ways,” without elaborating. The news came three days after Magic Johnson, the team’s president for basketball operations, made the surprise announcement that he was resigning so he could devote more time to his business interests.Walton, 39, was in his third season with the Lakers, who were expected to vie for a playoff spot after signing LeBron James, a four-time N.B.A. most valuable player, to a four-year, $154 million contract last July. Instead, the Lakers scuffled to a 37-45 record after months of general dysfunction and momentum-sapping injuries. They finished 10th in the Western Conference, well out of playoff position.The N.B.A.’s postseason will start Saturday but without the Lakers, whose postseason drought is now at six seasons. Not even the celebrated addition of James could salvage this one, but he missed significant time with a groin injury. And even when he was on the court, he appeared detached from his teammates as weeks of misery mounted.The Lakers are fraught with problems. When Johnson announced that he was quitting this week, he indicated that he had been planning to fire Walton and that he had the support of Jeanie Buss, the team’s controlling owner, to go forward with the move. But then Johnson resigned — in part, he said, because he could not go through with affecting someone’s “livelihood.”Hours later, after the Lakers had closed out their season with a loss to the Portland Trail Blazers, Walton said that he was looking forward to an eventful summer with the team in hopes of making improvements. Now he is gone, too, though he may not be unemployed for long.The Sacramento Kings immediately responded to Friday’s news by reaching out to Walton’s representatives to arrange an interview for their coaching vacancy, according to two people familiar with Sacramento’s plans who were not authorized to discuss them publicly. Walton is considered the front-runner to replace Dave Joerger, whom the Kings fired this week.Steve Kerr, the coach of the Golden State Warriors, expressed his support for Walton, one of his former assistants.“In this job, as a coach in the N.B.A., you are 100 percent dependent on your circumstances: the strength of your organization, the momentum, unity,” Kerr told reporters in Oakland, Calif. “Everything has to be in good order, because if it’s not, as we have witnessed with the Lakers, then there’s going to be casualties, and usually the coach is the first one.”He added: “They’re losing one of the best humans in the N.B.A. They’re losing a guy who knows the game as well as anybody I’ve met. They’re losing somebody who players believe in.”Walton, the son of the Hall of Fame center Bill Walton, was working with an ill-conceived roster that lacked depth, defense and perimeter shooting. Still, the pressure was on him before the season even began. Once the Lakers got off to a slow start, Johnson chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting, raising speculation that Walton was already on the hot seat.Questions about Walton’s job security persisted throughout the season as he shuffled rotations and lineups, searching for solutions that never materialized.Walton refused to make excuses — publicly, he was a voice of unwavering optimism amid a sea of discontent — but it hardly helped that the Lakers were troubled by injuries, especially at point guard.Then there was James, who had been incredibly durable in his 16-year career. But during the Lakers’ Christmas Day game against the Warriors, he limped off the court with a strained groin and missed the next 17 games. Without him, the Lakers struggled. The hope was that they could regain their footing once he returned, but he was not the cure-all anyone imagined. The Lakers continued to lose with James back in the lineup, even though he said he had “activated” himself for a playoff push.It had become clear by then, however, that the Lakers did not have any discernible chemistry, especially after Johnson and Rob Pelinka, their general manager, tried and failed to acquire the All-Star center Anthony Davis from the New Orleans Pelicans ahead of February’s trade deadline. (It was no coincidence, perhaps, that Davis and James shared an agent, Rich Paul.) The Lakers were willing to send the Pelicans several of their promising young players, including Kyle Kuzma, Brandon Ingram and Lonzo Ball, but were rebuffed in their attempts to swing a blockbuster deal.The result was a team that seemed distracted at best and fractured at worst. Before long, the Lakers were officially eliminated from playoff contention. James did not dress for the final six games of the season.Walton, who spent most of his 10-year N.B.A. playing career with the Lakers, winning two championships as a reserve forward, was hired as their coach in 2016 after two seasons as an assistant with the Warriors. In 2015-16, he began the season as the Warriors’ interim coach while Kerr recovered from debilitating back issues, and guided the team to a 39-4 record, which included a league-record 24 straight wins to start the season.It was certainly an achievement, but the Warriors were coming off a championship and primed to excel. With the Lakers, Walton was trying to build something. Now, that vast project — however onerous — will continue without him.Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Tyler Kepner and Kevin DraperThe best player in baseball is closing in on the richest contract in the history of North American sports. Mike Trout, the center fielder for the Los Angeles Angels, is finalizing a contract extension that will be worth about $430 million and keep him with the team through 2030, according to two people who were briefed on the deal but were not authorized to comment publicly.However the deal is calculated — either an additional $360 million over 10 years or the Angels’ total commitment of about $430 million for the next 12 years — Trout has eclipsed the previous record for guaranteed money: the 13-year, $330 million deal Bryce Harper signed this month with the Philadelphia Phillies.The extension, which was first reported by ESPN, would establish Trout as the highest-paid baseball player on an annual basis, topping the $34.4 million Zack Greinke is earning from the Arizona Diamondbacks on a six-year, $206.5 million contract signed in December 2015.[From 2017: Mike Trout, Baseball’s Best Without the Brand]While it is an enormous amount of money, even this record-breaking contract doesn’t necessarily bring Trout into the highest tier of overall income for professional athletes.While comparing contracts across sports and continents is an inherently difficult undertaking because of varied contractual structures, tax burdens, bonuses and ancillary benefits, it is clear that even with the monster deal Trout would fall well short of becoming the world’s highest paid athlete annually.The soccer superstar Lionel Messi, for example, is expected to earn more than 106 million euros (about $120 million) per year from Barcelona through 2021, an amount that could rise to 120 million euros if certain incentives are met. The boxer Canelo Álvarez will earn at least $73 million annually from a five-year deal with the streaming service DAZN.Trout, 27, also won’t have the highest annual salary in North American team sports. In the N.B.A., Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors is making $37.5 million this season, and the Houston Rockets’ James Harden will earn $42.3 million annually once his four-year, $169.3 million contract extension kicks in.The highest-paid N.F.L. player, Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers, earns a bit less than Trout is expected to: an average of $33.5 million from a four-year, $134 million contract (though only $98.7 million of that is guaranteed). Unlike Major League Baseball, the N.F.L. and N.B.A. have salary caps.Compared with superstars in other sports, Trout has a limited ability to earn money outside the game. Baseball players typically aren’t as well-known nationally or internationally as their counterparts in other major sports, and Trout’s lack of marketability has been lamented by M.L.B. Commissioner Rob Manfred.Trout does have a number of endorsement deals with companies including Rawlings and Nike, and in 2014 he became of the first baseball player since Ken Griffey Jr. to get a Nike signature cleat. But baseball players’ ability to move merchandise pales in comparison to that of a basketball player or a soccer player, and endorsement contracts reflect that.Trout earns an estimated $2.5 million from endorsements annually, according to Forbes. Kevin Durant’s endorsement deal with Nike alone is worth up to $300 million over 10 years, while Harden will earn $200 million over 13 years from Adidas. LeBron James of the N.B.A. and Cristiano Ronaldo, the Portuguese soccer star for Juventus, have lifetime deals with Nike that are rumored to be worth $1 billion each.While a handful of athletes earn more from their contracts annually than Trout, those individuals almost assuredly will not be doing so in 2030, the final year of Trout’s deal. N.B.A. contracts last a maximum of five years, and with a few exceptions, soccer contracts are rarely longer than that, either. Boxers typically earn their money fight to fight, while golf and tennis players simply claim a share of tournament prize money.But in 2030, no matter how Trout’s baseball career progresses, he will earn at least $36 million — a priceless long-term assurance.He has earned the payout by putting together seven astounding seasons to begin his career; the most similar players, production-wise, at his age, according to Baseball Reference, have been the Hall of Famers Frank Robinson, Ken Griffey Jr. and Mickey Mantle. Trout has won two American League Most Valuable Player Awards and been the runner-up four times. His career batting average is .307 and he is the majors’ active leader in on-base plus slugging percentage, at .990.But, adding to Trout’s lack of recognition and earning power, postseason success has eluded him. He has reached the playoffs just once, in 2014, when the Angels were swept by the Kansas City Royals in a division series. The possibility of Trout departing for a new team loomed after the 2020 season, when his six-year, $144.5 million contract was set to expire; Harper, for one, had said he would love for Trout to join him in Philadelphia.Trout still lives in his hometown, Millville, N.J., in the off-season, and is a die-hard Philadelphia Eagles fan. But the Angels had tried to impress upon Trout the benefits of keeping his work and home lives separate, and to sell him on the idea of being a one-team icon with a franchise with which he has thrived. And with a promise of an enormous paycheck — at least for on-field performance — the Angels put together a winning pitch.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaPaul George has a small freshwater pond behind his house in Oklahoma City that he stocks with bass, crappie and bluegill. Whenever he has a couple of hours to spare from his responsibilities as a do-everything forward for the N.B.A.’s Thunder, he heads out back with his fishing rod. He releases what he catches — for now, anyway.“Waiting for them to get a little bigger,” he said.George has time. Last summer, on the first night of free agency, he agreed to re-sign with the Thunder on a four-year, $137 million deal. The news emanated from a house party that Russell Westbrook, his superstar teammate, was hosting for George, who did not even entertain meetings with rival teams. He was sticking with the Thunder.In doing so, George made clear that he was banking on his partnership with Westbrook while offering endorsements of the organization and of Oklahoma City’s leisurely pace. He can fish. He can raise his two young children in a quiet neighborhood. And he can focus on basketball, knowing that his future is with the Thunder.“You can give your everything to one organization, and you know the direction that you’re going,” George said in a recent interview. “There’s so much that players have to deal with that I don’t think people quite recognize. A lot of them are the same issues that everybody else deals with. But this takes a lot of the burden off my shoulders.”There is something to be said for (relatively) stress-free living. As several other stars careen toward free agency this summer — and grapple with the accompanying distractions with varying degrees of success — George, 28, has been playing the best basketball of his life.He is averaging 28.2 points, 8.1 rebounds and 4.2 assists, all career highs, while shooting 44 percent from the field and 39.1 percent from 3-point range. He is at least in the conversation for his first N.B.A. Most Valuable Player Award.“I think the shift I’ve seen,” Coach Billy Donovan said, “is a guy who’s a lot more comfortable.”George has been limited recently by shoulder soreness, and Oklahoma City has slipped a bit in the standings. But the Thunder are capable of being a force in the playoffs, and they appear to be a close-knit group. One reason: Oklahoma City is not exactly flush with “extracurriculars,” as George put it, so the players tend to linger at the practice facility. They spend a lot of time together, which has helped build chemistry.“And if one person has to go do something, there’s always someone else who’s like, ‘I’ll tag along with you,’” George said. “That’s kind of been the culture here.”George was traded to the Thunder before the start of last season, after he told the Indiana Pacers that he would not sign a contract extension. Most figured that Oklahoma City would be a pit stop for George, who grew up in Palmdale, Calif., about 50 miles north of Los Angeles. More to the point: He had told the Pacers that he wanted to be shipped to the Lakers.Indiana balked and instead dealt him to Oklahoma City, where George averaged 21.9 points and 5.7 rebounds last season. After Oklahoma City lost in the first round of the playoffs, George was a free agent. He could have gone nearly anywhere, including to the Lakers.“I had so many phone calls and people asking me what he would do when it was all still up in the air,” Tom Hegre, his former coach at Knight High School, said in a telephone interview. “But I personally felt that he would stay with the Thunder. I just didn’t think he would bail on something before he gave it a legitimate chance.”Hegre also said he suspected that Oklahoma City itself had something to do with George’s decision. Even now, after six All-Star appearances, George is a small-town guy and a self-described “homebody.”Back in his high school days, George and his father would occasionally ask Hegre if the team was planning to practice over the weekend. Hegre knew that meant they were thinking about going fishing. They had their favorite spots: Hughes Lake, Lake Elsinore, Lopez Lake, Little Rock Reservoir.“I always thought that was pretty cool,” Hegre said.George has never played in a major market. Not in high school (Palmdale). Not in college (Fresno State). And not in the N.B.A., which may not be a coincidence. When he was with the Pacers, George lived in a suburban community with a large lake, where he kept a boat. He fished there, too.At the same time, his exit from Indiana affected him. It was the first time he felt disliked by the masses, and he was someone who had always tried hard to avoid disappointing or hurting people, said Steve Cleveland, his former coach at Fresno State.When George told Cleveland that he was entering the N.B.A. draft after two seasons at Fresno State, he was apologetic — and so were his parents, who kept apologizing even after George began to star for the Pacers.“I had to say, ‘Stop it,’” Cleveland said. “But that’s the type of people they are.”He added: “I’ve never really asked him this, but I’m sure leaving Indiana was a pretty sensitive deal for him. And I don’t think he wanted to go through all that stress again.”It is not hard to find big-time players who have come unglued at times because of their impending free agencies. Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors boycotted the news media for a couple of weeks. Kyrie Irving of the Boston Celtics has complained about the steep price of celebrity. For his part, George blamed “the press” for being a disruptive force in locker rooms.“Everything gets blown up,” he said. “Everything is a big deal.”It is no small feat, then, that George has found a home with the Thunder — and calm waters in Oklahoma City.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOAKLAND, Calif. — Lou Williams led the Los Angeles Clippers to the largest postseason comeback in NBA history.Landry Shamet hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 16.5 seconds left, Stephen Curry couldn't answer on the other end, and the Clippers somehow rallied from 31 points down on the road to stun the Golden State Warriors 135-131 on Monday night and even their first-round playoff series at one game apiece.The comeback topped a 29-point rally by the Los Angeles Lakers in the 1989 Western Conference semifinals over Seattle. The Clippers confirmed it's the best comeback ever."That's a record we didn't necessarily want to have. We'll take it," Williams said. "You're competitive and you get lost in the game. Once you cut the lead to 12, you cut the lead to 10, then you realize you've got a game going. I'm one of those guys who can get hot."Curry scored 29 points and put the Warriors up 131-128 with 58 seconds left before Shamet's dagger on a night the two-time defending NBA champions lost DeMarcus Cousins to a leg injury in the first quarter."We changed a couple things offensively and defensively in the third on the fly. It worked out for us. But I thought it was our spirit more than anything," Clippers coach Doc Rivers said. "Just every single guy. I loved the end of the game."Williams tied the game on a jumper with 1:10 to play then Curry immediately answered. Williams scored again at 46 seconds and finished with 36 points and made 8 of 10 free throws in as the teams combined for 64 fouls and 76 free throws attempted."When I say we stopped playing, we stopped playing, like defense, offense, execution-wise we were not as engaged as we needed to be," Warriors coach Steve Kerr said. "We got exactly what we deserved. The Clippers were great. They executed, they were hungry, they stayed connected. They were together."Cousins injured his left quadriceps muscle in the first quarter and was done for the game, but Golden State's depth shined and the Warriors built a 23-point halftime lead they pushed to a 31-point advantage before failing to hold off Los Angeles late.Williams' jumper and three-point play with 5:34 left pulled the Clippers within 120-117 then he rebounded his own miss and scored the putback at the 5:05 mark and cut it to 121-119."The wheels fell off," Curry said.Cousins was scheduled to undergo an MRI exam after the injury in just his second career playoff game following a nine-year wait. The big man returned in January from a nearly year-long absence following surgery for a torn left Achilles tendon.He won't play in Game 3 on Thursday at Staples Center and Cousins' entire postseason is in serious doubt.Kerr said Cousins will be out "a while.""There's a pretty significant quad injury," Kerr said.Cousins hobbled to the locker room at the 8:09 mark of the first quarter. At the 8 1/2-minute mark Cousins stole the ball from Patrick Beverley in the back court and tried to retrieve the loose ball when went down in front of the Golden State bench and grabbed at his left quad.LeBron James tweeted prayers for Cousins, who fouled out of Saturday's 121-104 Game 1 win with nine points, nine rebounds and four assists in 21 minutes.Kevon Looney picked up the bulk of the extra minutes in Cousins' absence and scored a career-high 19 points making all six of his shots but the Warriors had their seven-game postseason winning streak snapped that dated to last year's run to a repeat championship. Durant had 21 points, five rebounds and five assists, Klay Thompson scored 17 points and Draymond Green 14 with nine assists.Curry followed up a 38-point performance in Game 1 that gave him the most 3s in postseason history with another nice showing but Golden State hurt itself with too many miscues.The Warriors committed 21 turnovers in Game 1, then 22 more Monday — nine by Durant."We let our guard down. We weren't the aggressors anymore. We didn't deserve to win that game," Thompson said.Los Angeles wanted to do a better job stopping the late bursts each quarter the Warriors had in Game 1, and the Clippers were somehow able to claw their way back.Both coaches challenged their teams to be more poised in Game 2 following the ejections of Beverley and Durant in the opener. Beverley again pushed the limits but the sides avoided a testy encore, and he fouled out with 4:33 to go to roaring cheers from the sellout crowd. Kevin Durant fouled out at 1:21 with a third straight offensive foul.DURANT'S APOLOGYAt morning shootaround, Durant apologized for being tossed from Game 1.The two-time reigning finals MVP has two technicals, and if he reaches seven during the postseason it brings an automatic one-game suspension."I don't want to disappoint my coaches and my fan base and owners who expect me to be out on the floor, so I apologize for being thrown out the game," Durant said. "Just keep my mouth shut, just play the game. Simple."DOC APPRECIATES GOOD DEEDDoc Rivers dropped $2,000 cash on the street in San Francisco earlier in the day — and offered a pregame "shoutout" to the man with the integrity to return the money."Kept walking, didn't know it. The guy tapped me on the back and said, 'that's your money,'" Rivers shared. "I don't know a lot of places that that would happen, but it happened today, so whoever that was he could have had free tickets if you hadn't ran away."TIP-INSClippers: Williams scored 17 points in the third to match Chris Paul's postseason franchise record done May 5, 2014, against Oklahoma City. ... The L.A. backups scored another 83 points after getting 65 in the opener. In fact, in Game 1, Harrell (26) and Williams (25) were the first teammates to come off the bench and score 25 or more points in a postseason game since bench stats began in 1970-71, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.Warriors: With his 129th career playoff game, Durant passed Kerr for 73rd place on the NBA's all-time list. ... C Andrew Bogut (419) moved by Clifford Ray (411) for sixth place on the Warriors' career postseason rebounds list.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThe Golden State Warriors are trying to regain the lead in a series they probably still can't believe is tied.Same with the San Antonio Spurs, who like the Warriors know they are facing an opponent who won't stay down no matter how far they fall down.The Clippers' historic comeback against the Warriors, followed by Denver's potential season-saving surge against the Spurs, made that clear.So things are all even in those two Western Conference first-round series, which resume with a pair of Game 3s on Thursday night.Philadelphia and Brooklyn play the other Game 3 of the night in an East series that also is tied at a game apiece.Golden State would be up 2-0 if not for the Clippers' colossal comeback — or the Warriors' colossal collapse — on Monday night in Game 2. The Warriors led by 31 in the third quarter before Los Angeles charged back to win 135-131 after the biggest rally in NBA postseason history.The Warriors won Game 1 by 17, appeared headed toward an even easier win in Game 2, and yet go into Game 3 basically starting from scratch."If you were up 30 with a quarter and a half to go, you just lose out of nowhere, it's like somebody ran up to you and punched you in the guy and ran away," Kevin Durant said. "It's shock. I don't even know how to explain it."The seventh-seeded Spurs took the series opener against a Denver team that was an NBA-best 34-7 at home during the regular season. San Antonio then was up 78-59 late in the third quarter of Game 2 before Jamal Murray's 21-point fourth quarter carried the Nuggets to a 114-105 victory.At least the Spurs, unlike the Warriors, can regroup in their home building, where the Nuggets haven't won since 2012."It's definitely not ideal to have a lead and then blow it like that," Spurs forward LaMarcus Aldridge said. "We came in and definitely played a pretty good first half, but you know when you come on the road in the playoffs and you win one game on the road, that's great. So we've got to go home and try to take care of business."A look at Thursday's games:76ERS AT NETSTied 1-1. Game 3, 8 p.m. EDT, TNTNEED TO KNOW: After dropping the opener and leading by only one at halftime of Game 2, the 76ers finally looked like favorites by pouring in 51 points in the third quarter to roll to a 145-123 victory. Now they go to the home of the Nets, who have won Game 3 in their last three playoff series dating to the first round in 2014.KEEP AN EYE ON: Joel Embiid. Even limited by knee soreness, he has double-doubles in both games to give him nine in his first 10 postseason games. Only Hall of Famers Wilt Chamberlain and Oscar Robertson had more.INJURY WATCH: The Nets are listing veteran forward Jared Dudley as probable. His defense played a key role in the opener but he missed Game 2 with right calf tightness.PRESSURE IS ON: Brooklyn's starters. The bench helped carry the Nets after a slow start in Game 1, but the hole was too big to climb after the dismal beginning to the second half of Game 2.NUGGETS AT SPURSSeries tied at 1. Game 3, 9 p.m. EDT, NBATVNEED TO KNOW: With their Game 2 win, the Nuggets snapped a five-game skid to the Spurs in the playoffs that dated to 2007. They couldn't afford to fall 2-0 given the Nuggets have dropped 13 straight in San Antonio.KEEP AN EYE ON: Gary Harris. Sure, Murray scored 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter, and big man Nikola Jokic just missed his second triple-double of the series, but Harris chipped in 23. He flies under the radar.PRESSURE IS ON: Aldridge and DeMar DeRozan. The tandem combined 55 points, but may need to take their game to an even higher level — if that's possible. "We had control of the game. We just let the fourth quarter get away," Aldridge said. "We didn't execute defensively as well as we had the other three quarters and we let those guys get going a little bit."WARRIORS AT CLIPPERSTied 1-1. Game 3, 10:30 p.m. EDT, TNTNEED TO KNOW: Lou Williams, the favorite for Sixth Man of the Year, is averaging 30.5 points and 10 assists in the series. Fellow reserve Montrezl Harrell has scored 25.5 points on 20-of-24 shooting.KEEP AN EYE ON: Durant and Patrick Beverley. Beverley's antics in defending the 6-foot-9 Durant are fun to watch, and having some success. Durant took only eight shots in Game 2 and coach Steve Kerr wants him to be more aggressive."The guy is the most skilled basketball player on planet earth," Kerr said. "There's nobody who can do what he can do. It's the playoffs. Defenses are more locked in, they're playing everybody tougher. I don't know how many shots he got the other night, seven, eight. Absolutely he needs to be more aggressive. It's the playoffs. He can get any shot he wants any time. I want to see him get 20 shots, 30."INJURY WATCH: With DeMarcus Cousins lost to a torn left quadriceps muscle, Andrew Bogut will step in to start for the two-time defending champions. He re-signed last month for a second stint with the franchise after playing for the 2015 champions and the '16 team that won 73 games before losing to LeBron James and the Cavaliers in Game 7 of the finals."This is why we got him, just in case," Kerr said.In addition, Kevon Looney will see increased minutes. He scored a career-high 19 points on 6-for-6 shooting in Game 1 filling in for Cousins, who won't require surgery for the injury. The big man returned in January from a nearly yearlong absence recovering from surgery for a torn left Achilles tendon.PRESSURE IS ON: Golden State's defense. The Warriors allowed 85 points in the second half of Game 2, too much even for their potent offense to overcome.___AP Sports Writers Pat Graham in Denver, Colorado and Janie McCauley in Oakland, California contributed to this report.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel VictorIn his two years as president of basketball operations for the Los Angeles Lakers, Magic Johnson presided over a team as chaotic and playoff-free as the one he’d inherited.The Lakers succeeded in stockpiling talent — including the franchise-altering signing of LeBron James — but failed in putting together complementary pieces, or attracting the second major star Johnson openly said he was chasing.[Magic Johnson stunned the basketball world by suddenly stepping down on Tuesday.]Here’s a look back at Johnson’s high and low points while running the team.In February 2017, four seasons into the team’s longest-ever playoff drought, the Lakers reshuffled their front office by firing the general manager, Mitch Kupchak, and installing Johnson as its president. Less than a month later, Rob Pelinka, a longtime agent, was hired as the general manager, reporting to Johnson.Officially and unofficially, Johnson had remained tied to the team since he retired in 1996. He owned a share of the team from 1994 to 2010, and after that he was an honorary vice president — a title the team took away from him after he violated the league’s tampering rules by tweeting about free agents.Three weeks before he was hired in his new role, he had returned to the Lakers as an adviser to Jeanie Buss, the team’s president and co-owner. She would soon clean house while promoting Johnson.“Everyone associated with the Lakers will now be pulling in the same direction, the direction established by Earvin and myself,” she said, using Johnson’s given name. “We are determined to get back to competing to win N.B.A. championships again.”The first major test of the new regime had decidedly mixed results.Days before the draft, Johnson shed the costly contract of Timofey Mozgov by giving up on D’Angelo Russell, whom the team had selected second over all just two years earlier. In return for the duo, the Brooklyn Nets gave up Brook Lopez and the 27th pick in the draft, which turned into the promising Kyle Kuzma. But Russell has blossomed this year with the Nets, earning an All-Star appearance while leading Brooklyn back to the playoffs.Russell’s departure opened the point guard spot for Lonzo Ball, who has flashed two-way potential but largely fallen short of his lofty expectations as the second pick in the draft. In addition to Kuzma, the Lakers struck gold with Josh Hart, who was selected 30th and has become a core piece.Johnson made no secret of his intent to draw the game’s biggest stars to Los Angeles, with an eye toward what was expected to be a major 2018 off-season. The team largely punted on the 2017 off-season to preserve its salary cap space in 2018, signing Kentavious Caldwell-Pope to a one-year deal.At the 2018 trade deadline, the Lakers shed the contracts of Jordan Clarkson and Larry Nance Jr., opening more cap space. Johnson said the trade indicated the Lakers would have the cap space and the ability to land two star players, either by trade or free agency.“I wouldn’t have made the move if I wasn’t confident,” he said at the time.Signing LeBron James to a long-term contract in 2018 was exactly the kind of result the Lakers had planned for and needed, setting expectations that they would return to the playoffs and compete for a championship. But the free agents the Lakers signed to surround him — Caldwell-Pope, Rajon Rondo, Lance Stephenson, JaVale McGee and Michael Beasley — immediately puzzled some observers.An optimist would have called them playoff-tested veterans. Others saw it differently: A cast of nonshooters and big personalities who would have a questionable fit next to James and the Lakers’ young talent.The hodgepodge crew was assembled partly because the team struck out on its bigger targets. After years of speculation that Paul George would return to his hometown, he instead opted to re-sign with Oklahoma City. The San Antonio Spurs sent Kawhi Leonard east to the Toronto Raptors. DeMarcus Cousins signed a bargain, one-year deal with the Golden State Warriors.Once the season arrived, the Lakers blew it in dramatic fashion, extending their record playoff drought. But they preserved cap space for the 2019 off-season, giving them another chance to add a star.There could be little doubt the Lakers would be interested in Anthony Davis as soon as he became available. James and Davis share an agent, and the Lakers were long believed to be Davis’s most committed suitor.But when the All-Star center made a public trade request in late January, he created a debacle for Johnson and the Lakers. The players in the Lakers’ young core — Ball, Kuzma, Hart and Brandon Ingram, the second overall pick from the 2016 draft — were constantly named in leaked trade offers.The Pelicans made an effort to head off any potential tampering when they announced Davis’s trade request. “We have also requested the League to strictly enforce the tampering rules associated with this transaction,” the team said in a statement.In addition to Davis’s connections to the Lakers, Los Angeles had a well-known history of tampering, dating back to Johnson’s tweets before he took over.Johnson was not very subtle about recruiting George during a 2017 appearance on “Jimmy Kimmel Live,” during which he was asked what he would do if he saw the player socially.“We’re going to say hi because we know each other, you just can’t say, ‘Hey, I want you to come to the Lakers,’ even though I’ll be wink-winking like, ‘You know what that means, right?’ ”The episode earned Johnson a warning from the N.B.A., and the team was later fined $500,000 for what the league deemed impermissible contact between Pelinka and George’s agent.In June 2018, Johnson was fined $50,000 for his comments about Giannis Antetokounmpo after praising the Bucks star.In February, the Sixers’ Ben Simmons — who plays as an oversize point guard, like Johnson did — requested a meeting with Johnson to get playing tips, prompting Johnson to publicly praise the former Rookie of the Year. But the league ultimately determined Johnson had not broken tampering rules.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy James WagnerTAMPA, Fla. — C. C. Sabathia didn’t have to say much on Saturday as he formally announced that the 2019 baseball season would be his last. But in a sense, the announcement spoke for itself.“It’s time,” Sabathia, a 38-year-old left-hander, said during a news conference at the Yankees’ spring training complex that formalized a decision he had previously spoken about. “My knee, the shape that it’s in.”After 3,470 innings of his hefty, 6-foot 6-inch frame landing on his right knee with every pitch, and dealing with multiple operations, injections and braces, Sabathia understood he was running out of time on the mound.And a recent cardiac scare, which led to an angioplasty in December to unclog an artery, reinforced his belief that 2019 should be the conclusion of what has been an illustrious and rewarding career, one that includes a 2009 championship in the Bronx.In addition, he said, he has a family to consider after so many years in uniform and not always being around. Or, as he put it, “Just seeing what was important to me and how much my family is important to me, and wanting to be around them and just trying to care of myself the best way possible.’’As he spoke, he was his joined by his wife, Amber, and three of his four children — Carter, Jaden and Cyia. (The oldest, C. C. III, 15, was back in New York to play in a high school basketball game.)“My family is getting older,” he said. “My kids are getting older. It’s time for me to be with them.’’While talking about how much he loved the off-season, hopping in the family minivan to drive his children to basketball practice or dance recitals, Sabathia said he wanted to do more of that and to help his wife more as well.“She’s a single mother pretty much six months out of the year while I’m gone,” he said.His son Carter nodded when he heard that, drawing laughs from those in attendance.“I never see him during the season,” Cyia said. “When he’s home, it feels like we have a full family.”“It’ll be better for him to come to my dance recitals and show all of his love and support,” Jaden added.“We’ve been cheering for him for so many years, so I’m excited for him to cheer for us,” Amber said.Sabathia said what he would miss most after retirement was his teammates — playing with them on the field and hanging out with them between games.“I feel like these guys keep me young,” he said. He added later: “All I ever wanted for people to remember me as is as a good teammate.”When Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman wooed Sabathia to New York before the 2009 season with a seven-year, $161 million contract, Sabathia admitted being nervous about playing in pinstripes. In his long tenure in New York, he evolved, by necessity, from a hard thrower to someone who could mix up his pitches with a good deal of guile.He kept re-signing with the Yankees as the seasons went on and is now on a one-year deal that will wrap up his career. He goes into this season with a 246-153 career won-loss record and a 3.70 earned run average.“I think he’s a Hall of Famer and I think he will get in,” said Yankees Manager Aaron Boone, who played with Sabathia in Cleveland in 2005 and 2006.Sabathia’s announcement was given a good deal of fanfare by the Yankees. Team officials were present, as were members of the Steinbrenner family, and many coaches and players were in attendance, too.The Yankees made sure to note his 2007 American League Cy Young Award with the Indians, his six All-Star appearances, his 2,986 strikeouts. Noted, too, were all his charitable efforts.The Yankees also noted the praise sent Sabathia’s way from his former teammates like Derek Jeter and Andy Pettitte, from Golden State Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, from rapper Fat Joe and even from the mayor of Sabathia’s hometown, Vallejo, Calif. Sabathia said he hoped to read them all later and not cry.“Not only is he one of the best pitchers to ever play the game, but he’ll also go down as one of the great competitors to ever pick up a baseball,” said LeBron James, who shares a Cleveland sports history with Sabathia. “ It’s been an honor to watch him play, and I’m excited to see what he’ll take on next. Congrats, my friend.”While talking about his career, Sabathia also cited his parents. His mother is back in New Jersey, where Sabathia lives. His father died of cancer in 2003.When Sabathia was with the Indians, from the time he was drafted in 1998 until his 2008 trade to the Milwaukee Brewers, he said his father used to tell him he would end up playing for the Yankees. Sabathia bristled at the idea, thinking he would stay with the Indians his entire career.“He always said, ‘When you’re a free agent, the Yankees will come get you and you’ll win a World Series,’” Sabathia said. “For me to be able to live that dream for him is great. I just wish he was here to see it.”Follow James Wagner on Twitter: @ByJamesWagner.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The evolution of Giannis Antetokounmpo into a global star has been playing out for six seasons. It manifests in soaring dunks, or blocked shots from the weak side that defy logic, or wraparound passes to an open shooter, or crossover dribbles that leave defenders reeling in his impossibly long-limbed wake.But Pat Connaughton, a reserve guard, did not have the opportunity to witness Antetokounmpo’s feats on a daily basis until last summer, when he signed with the Milwaukee Bucks and joined his new teammates for scrimmages ahead of training camp.“You’d see him do something ridiculous, and I’d be looking around and nobody would be reacting,” Connaughton recalled. “Like, ‘Did you guys not just see that?’”For the players who have been around Antetokounmpo the longest, there may be an element of genius fatigue at work — not that they take him for granted. Malcolm Brogdon, a third-year guard, tried to provide some context for Connaughton at one of those early scrimmages.“You’ll get used to it after a while,” Brogdon told him. “It happens all the time.”Antetokounmpo, 24, has turned the sublime into the routine. But the novelty has not worn off for N.B.A. fans, who have made him appointment viewing this season, and the Bucks have shaped themselves into contenders by following his lead. On top of that, nearly two years after Kobe Bryant, the retired Los Angeles Lakers guard, challenged Antetokounmpo to win the league’s Most Valuable Player Award, he may be on the verge of upending the Eastern Conference to do so.“Everything you see about him or hear about him is how hard he works,” Lakers Coach Luke Walton said, “and how great he wants to be.”The Bucks improved their league-best record to 48-14 after coming from behind to defeat the Lakers on Friday night at Staples Center. Antetokounmpo, who has been dealing with right knee soreness, finished with 16 points and 15 rebounds in the Bucks’ 131-120 win, which qualified as a quiet effort for him. But he had his moments.Early in the fourth quarter, he sized up Mike Muscala, his 6-foot-11 defender, at the top of the perimeter. He took a couple of hard dribbles into the paint, threw his right shoulder into Muscala to knock him off balance, then dunked over him with his left hand.“He draws so much attention,” Bucks Coach Mike Budenholzer said.It was a play that helped ignite the Bucks, who enjoyed an eventful day. After point guard Eric Bledsoe agreed to a four-year, $70 million contract extension in the afternoon, he roasted the Lakers for a season-high 31 points. In addition, Pau Gasol was expected to join the team after securing a buyout from the San Antonio Spurs.“Unbelievable guy,” Antetokounmpo said of Gasol. “He’s been to the finals. He has so much experience. I think he’s definitely going to help us.”The Bucks are readying for a playoff run with Antetokounmpo as their focal point. Entering their game against the Utah Jazz on Saturday night, Antetokounmpo was averaging 26.8 points, 12.6 rebounds and 5.9 assists while shooting 57.9 percent from the field.“When the season started, we knew we had something special — we had a great team,” he said. “But to be honest with you, no, I never thought we were going to have the best record in the N.B.A.“But I think we’ve worked hard for it, we go out there and show up for every game, and we try to win every game.”There is no apt historical comparison for Antetokounmpo because the league has never seen anyone quite like him. He is too long and too strong, too quick and too skilled, a 6-foot-11 power forward who can defend point guards at one end and post up the league’s stoutest centers at the other. As for Antetokounmpo’s unique athleticism, Connaughton considers him to be something of a hybrid of Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors and LeBron James of the Lakers.“He’s got the length of K.D.,” Connaughton said, “but now he’s at the point where he’s got the strength of LeBron — or at least he’s on that trajectory. And that speaks volumes about his work ethic and his desire to be the best that he can be. Because not a lot of guys with that talent work that hard.”Connaughton, whose playing time has fluctuated this season, often goes to the team’s practice facility on off days for extra shooting and conditioning work. Antetokounmpo, Connaughton said, is always there, too. He is a gym rat in the second year of a four-year, $100 million contract. Connaughton joined the Bucks after three seasons with the Portland Trail Blazers, and he said Antetokounmpo plays with the same motor — the same mind-set — as Damian Lillard, the Blazers’ All-Star point guard.“Obviously Dame is a different player, but I think they share an inner desire,” Connaughton said. “It has nothing to do with the outside. It has nothing to do with the media, the attention or the press. Like, they’re in it for their own reasons — the right reasons, in my opinion.”Whenever Budenholzer is asked about it, which is often these days, he makes a compelling case for Antetokounmpo as the N.B.A.’s most valuable player — and he cites his defense as Exhibit A. Antetokounmpo is so dynamic on offense, Budenholzer said, that it tends to overshadow everything else is does. Sure enough, he had three blocked shots against the Lakers.Antetokounmpo is not going to create headlines with bold predictions — after Friday’s win, he repeated familiar mantras about taking it “day by day” and continuing to “work hard” — but the Bucks must be thinking big. All around them, powerhouse teams are struggling. Even the Warriors, the two-time defending champions, have had issues.Few thought the Bucks would be this good this quickly, but everyone was saying the same thing about Antetokounmpo when he entered the league at age 19. Suddenly, the future is now.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThere's no LeBron James in these playoffs, so the NBA Finals will have a distinctly new look for the first time in nine years.There's no Tony Parker, for the first time in nearly two decades.There's no Dwyane Wade, and he'll never play a playoff game again.San Antonio is in the postseason for a record-tying 22nd consecutive season. Brooklyn, Denver, Detroit, Orlando and the Los Angeles Clippers got into these playoffs after watching the postseason last year.As always at playoff time, there are some familiar things and some not-so-familiar things. With the postseason set to begin Saturday, here's 10 things to know going into the best time of the NBA year:DRIVE FOR FIVEGolden State is trying to reach the NBA Finals for the fifth consecutive season.If the Warriors get there, they would be the second franchise ever with such a streak — joining only the Boston Celtics, who went there in 10 straight seasons from 1957-66.The Warriors are one of five franchises with a streak of four straight NBA Finals trips: the Los Angeles Lakers did it from 1982-85, the Celtics also did it from 1984-87, the Miami Heat did it from 2011-14 and the Cleveland Cavaliers did it from 2015-18.Golden State is also seeking its seventh championship in franchise history. That would put the Warriors in sole possession of third place on the NBA's most-titles list, behind Boston (17) and the Lakers (16).The Warriors and Chicago are currently tied for third with six championships each.BLOWOUT BUCKSMilwaukee had 45 double-digit wins this season, the most in the NBA.That's a really good omen for the Bucks.Only four teams in NBA history have posted more double-digit wins in a regular season than the Bucks this year. Those clubs are the 1971-72 Los Angeles Lakers (50), the 2016-17 Golden State Warriors (48), the 1970-71 Bucks (47) and the 1995-96 Chicago Bulls (46).All four of those teams went on to win the NBA championship.MR. 3000?Houston's James Harden scored 2,818 points in the regular season, which puts him on the cusp of joining a very elite club.If Harden scores 182 in the playoffs, that will give him a total of 3,000 — and he would be the 10th player in NBA history to score that many in a full season, postseason included. The others: Michael Jordan (10 times), Wilt Chamberlain (five times), Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Rick Barry, Elgin Baylor, Kobe Bryant, Kevin Durant, Bob McAdoo and Shaquille O'Neal.Durant was the last to do it, in 2013-14.LeBron James almost got into the club last year, coming as close as humanly possible — he scored 2,999 points for Cleveland.WELCOME BACKKawhi Leonard's last postseason appearance ended earlier than planned, when he hurt his left ankle while taking a jumper over Golden State's Zaza Pachulia in Game 1 of the 2017 Western Conference finals. Pachulia closed out aggressively, Leonard didn't have space to land safely and he missed the rest of that series.When Leonard left the game, he and San Antonio were up by 23. The Spurs lost that lead, lost the game, lost the series and Leonard never played a postseason second with the Spurs again after that bad landing.Toronto is hoping that Leonard can rekindle his typical postseason magic in his playoff return.Leonard enters these playoffs with a 32-game streak of double-digit postseason outings, averaging 24.1 points in those contests.STEPH RISINGWarriors guard Stephen Curry is on pace to catch Ray Allen and become the NBA's all-time 3-point leader sometime in the 2020-21 season.That stat only takes regular-season games into account. In the postseason, Curry is about to become No. 1.Curry has 378 career postseason 3s, good for No. 2 on the NBA's all-time playoff list. Allen is No. 1, with 385.PLAYOFF CASHThe 16 playoff teams are playing for the Larry O'Brien Trophy, for rings, for a parade ... and for a stake of $21,676,510.That's the amount of this year's NBA Playoff Pool — a record.Every playoff team is assured of some of the pie, which is often used to fund bonuses for players and team staff.So far, all 16 teams are due at least $323,506 each. Most have already clinched much more because finishing in the top six spots in each conference also comes with a bonus. For example, Milwaukee — because it had the best record in the NBA — is already due $1,495,750.Teams get an additional $384,930 for winning a first-round series. Conference finalists get another $638,094. The losing team in the NBA Finals gets another $2,543,681 and the NBA champs get one more payout of $3,838,798.Add it all up, and the Bucks could get $6,355,572 if they win the title. No other team can win that much.HOUSTON, A PROBLEM?Houston is the No. 4 seed in the Western Conference, and faces No. 5 seed Utah in the first round.History suggests the Rockets are in trouble.In each of the last seven seasons, and nine of the last 10, the No. 5 team in the West has beaten the No. 4 team in the first round.Utah has won each of its last five appearances in a 4-versus-5 series. The fifth-seeded Jazz knocked off Oklahoma City in 2018, the Los Angeles Clippers in 2017 and Denver in 2010. The Jazz were seeded No. 4 when they won a 4-versus-5 series in 2007 and 2008 — both of those coming against Houston.BOOGIE'S DEBUTDeMarcus Cousins is No. 1 on a list that nobody wants to lead.By this weekend, he'll be off the list entirely.Cousins has played in 565 regular-season games and zero postseason games. That'll change this weekend when he and Golden State play host to the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 1 of a Western Conference first-round series.No active NBA player has been in more regular-season games without a playoff appearance than Cousins. When he plays for the Warriors this weekend, and when Kyle O'Quinn — currently No. 2 on the list with 443 regular-season games without a postseason minute — plays for Indiana, the new active leader in games played without a postseason appearance will be Brandon Knight.He's played in 421 and is still looking for his first playoff outing.MILESTONE COMINGSometime in the next couple of months, the 4,000th playoff game in NBA history will be played.There have been 3,934 postseason contests so far. Based on the way last season went, the milestone game will come late in the conference-semifinal round or early in the conference-final round.FINALS STARTThis season's NBA Finals start May 30. It'll be the earliest Game 1 of the title series since 1986, when Boston and Houston opened their series on May 26.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaSACRAMENTO — The Boston Celtics were not in a good place when they boarded a plane bound for California on Sunday. They were coming off a home loss to the Houston Rockets that point guard Kyrie Irving punctuated by using a total of 43 words to answer nine questions in his postgame news conference.At one point, he was asked whether he thought the team could cobble together some momentum on its West Coast trip.“We’ll see,” he whispered.Just one season removed from a run to the N.B.A.’s Eastern Conference finals, and seemingly improved by the re-addition of Gordon Hayward and the continued development of their young core, the Celtics were on the brink of falling apart. Any hope they still harbored of being a championship-ready team was as brittle as a toothpick.But after some reflection and conversation, the Celtics regained a bit of their swagger with back-to-back wins this week against the Golden State Warriors and the Sacramento Kings. The Celtics will see if they can keep the good vibes going on Saturday against the Los Angeles Lakers, which is anything but certain, especially for Irving, whose season has been clouded by questions about his future with the team.Such uncertainty does not make Irving unique in the modern N.B.A. — Kevin Durant of the Warriors and Kawhi Leonard of the Toronto Raptors are among the other stars who will weigh big decisions in free agency this summer — but the Celtics have let the noise affect them.With the two wins this week improving their record to 40-26, the Celtics may be showing signs that they are finally, mercifully, learning how to cope.“That long plane ride helped us out,” Irving said after Tuesday’s lopsided victory over the Warriors. “I’ll just say that. We needed it. We needed it. We were going to get to a point where we were just going to get tired of fighting each other, fighting the outside world when it doesn’t really matter. So we just wanted to come out here and play basketball.“This is our sanctuary, and we have to do everything we can to protect it. We can’t let anyone infiltrate it.”Irving, who missed Wednesday’s win against the Kings with a left thigh contusion, is averaging a team-leading 23.4 points a game along with 7 assists and 4.9 rebounds, both career highs. He is also shooting 49.5 percent from the field and 41.7 percent from 3-point range.He also ranks among the N.B.A. leaders in mercurial behavior. He has been vague about the specific source of his discontent, but it may have something to do with his pending free agency.Irving backed off an earlier pledge to re-sign with the Celtics after they struggled at the start of the season. In fact, during a trip to New York to play the Knicks on Feb. 1, he told a group of reporters in his own colorfully abrasive way that he did not owe anyone anything. The Knicks, of course, would be interested in signing Irving, a six-time All-Star who grew up in New Jersey and has a soft spot for Madison Square Garden.Then came the All-Star break, and a clip of Irving and Durant having an inaudible conversation found its way to the internet, where an army of amateur lip readers tried to decode what they were saying. Worth noting: Irving and Durant are close friends. Also worth noting: The Knicks will have enough cap space this summer for two max contracts.Irving refused to shed light on their chat, and said it was nobody’s business, which was his prerogative. But it had the general effect of using a napkin to mop up an oil spill.Since then, Irving has been alluding to nefarious forces and the steep cost of celebrity, saying he hates the spotlight — even as he sells sneakers and moonlights as an actor. He reiterated his disdain this week after collecting 19 points and 11 assists against the Warriors, his 17th double-double this season.“The business part of it is just what makes it terrible for me — honestly, dealing with all this,” he said, referring to the reporters around him. “I’m going to be honest with you guys: The basketball part of it? I have to keep that fun. That’s where I’m great. Being around my teammates, that’s what makes me happy. And the business part of it is going to be business.”It was not lost on anyone who witnessed this exchange that Irving was bashing the business of basketball while wearing an Uncle Drew ball cap — the same Uncle Drew character he popularized in soft drink commercials and then parlayed into a movie released last year.As for the basketball itself, well, Boston has had an uneven season, the product of a team that is not nearly Lakers-level dysfunctional but is not exactly cohesive, either. The Celtics arrived for their game against the Warriors having lost five of their last six games, and their locker room was a joyless place.Perhaps they needed to get away from Boston. Perhaps they needed perspective. Perhaps Irving needed to speak with Danny Ainge, the team’s president of basketball operations, and Brad Stevens, its coach, who reminded Irving that the team still had a lot of season left to play. It was not over, not yet, not by any stretch.“Every team has to find a togetherness in competing,” Stevens said. “Some teams, it takes 60 games. Some teams, it takes 20 games. And bad teams never get there. We hope that it took us 60 games, but we’ll see. We haven’t proven ourselves to be great at that yet for a long stretch of time.”In their 128-95 win against the Warriors, the Celtics had 38 assists on 49 field goals. They also communicated. When Irving and forward Jaylen Brown botched a play that led to an early turnover, Brown patted himself on the chest to apologize, then appeared to apologize a second time on their next trip up the court.The next night, in Sacramento, Irving sat behind the visiting bench for the Celtics’ 111-109 victory over the Kings. He was vocal. He did a lot of fist-pumping. And he celebrated when Hayward, less than 24 hours after scoring 30 points against the Warriors, connected on the game-winner.After suffering a grisly ankle injury in the opening game and missing last season, Hayward has struggled to find a rhythm in his return. Maybe he found it here in California, along with the rest of the team. The Celtics are too talented to let this opportunity go to waste, because who knows how long it will last?“As long as my teammates are feeling good,” Irving said, “then we’re in a good place.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellUnhappy with mere tanking, displeased with their success at earning the N.B.A.’s worst record, the Knicks took Kristaps Porzingis, their once-in-a-generation asset, their most, and perhaps only, popular player, and traded him to the Dallas Mavericks on Thursday for potsherds and trinkets.Actually, point of information: Porzingis was not even the center of the transaction. The Knicks tossed him in as a sweetener to persuade the Mavericks to also take the putative shooting guard Tim Hardaway and his frightful contract. It was Steve Mills, the team president, whose feel for failure is bred in the bone, who handed Hardaway that $70.9 million deal two years ago. Now Mills and the rest of the Knicks’ vaunted leadership group have traded Porzingis to get rid of it.Had I been able to reach Mark Cuban, the Mavericks’ owner, for comment on his Porzingis heist, I can only assume he would have dissolved into uncontrollable laughter.We live in a national age of delusion and unapologetic rule-breaking, so perhaps there is a pleasingly nefarious explanation for this trade. If so, Knicks management should cling to it like a barnacle on the hull of a sinking ship. Perhaps the Knicks have successfully tampered with another team’s asset and know that Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving, or both, will sign in the summer now that the franchise has plenty of cap space.But I would put the chances that the Knicks could pull off something that clever and diabolical at 6.82 percent. When in doubt it is wisest to bank on inexplicable incompetence.Porzingis apparently helped set all this off by requesting a trade. As a 7-foot-3 23-year-old coming off a serious knee injury, he represented a conundrum for management. Do you commit this summer to a long-term contract of the sort that would tickle the tummy of Croesus? Let’s assume the Knicks’ crack medical and rehabilitation staff warned that his future looked iffy.If so, why wouldn’t Knicks management dangle Porzingis for a week or more to interested teams and let natural competitive instincts come into play around the league? When healthy, Porzingis is a top 20 player, and that made him a rare asset. Instead, the Knicks traded him posthaste for the aging center DeAndre Jordan and a talented, but raw, point guard, Dennis Smith Jr. The Knicks already have raw point guards, so maybe management succumbed to a collect-them-all fever.All theories and psychological analyses are welcome.I’ve followed the Knicks for decades now, and my sons soon contracted my affliction. Like residents in a smallpox ward we often debate whether we have divined one obscure reason or another for faint hope, which is why I hopped the subway a week ago and went to Barclays Center to watch the Knicks take on the Brooklyn Nets.It was a desultory affair at times, but it did feature a Nets team that is climbing in the standings with surprising speed, in contrast to the Knicks, who are hurtling happily downward. And the Nets played like men returned from a near-death experience, happily surprised to possess a winning record after four losing seasons in the Hades of the N.B.A.To his credit, the Nets’ general manager, Sean Marks, has executed a smart rebuild with a fishmonger’s eye for plucking useful talent out of the discard pool. The Nets play a swarming defense with a collective bounce, and their wait-who-is-that-guy no-names are long on desire and short on distorting egos. It was possible to daydream that if only they could sign a Durant or a Kawhi Leonard as a free agent, the Nets could be a genuine terror in the Eastern Conference.The Knicks offer terror of a different sort. They decided this season to double down on what they have done instinctually for so many years and devote their energies to pure losing. They are superb at it. Entering Friday’s game against Boston, their record stood at 10-40, which assures them a high draft pick in June.The modern N.B.A. is an upstairs-downstairs league and runs a two-tier competition: The upstairs version is staged by the top 10 or so teams and is all about winning and praying that your team will not face the Golden State Warriors until late in the playoffs, at which point you will be excused for exiting quickly and feet first.The downstairs version involves a half-dozen teams, and the point is to become the worst of the worst and pray you can draft a young stud who will turn around your franchise. The worst-run teams return year after year to this brackish well. This is the game at which the Knicks currently excel.And there is indeed much unlovely about these Knicks. Their defense occupies a netherworld between theoretical and clueless. Their now-traded shooting guard, Hardaway, appeared to have had his conscience surgically removed and would shoot anywhere at any time and none too successfully.And yet, and yet, I thought these Knicks offered a rough hope. They have the youngest team in the league, a group of foals, and a few might even possess lasting talent. Put them together with Porzingis, and something intriguing might emerge.Friends resisted these optimistic blandishments, and I dug that. In James Dolan, the Knicks have an owner who meddles and hires and fires team presidents and coaches like a mad king. In the past 17 seasons, the Knicks finished with a winning record precisely twice. This one will be no better.Still, I felt hope. The new coach, David Fizdale, is a clever basketball man who seemed O.K. with playing dorm father to a collection of teenagers. This week, Fizdale pointed to the Philadelphia 76ers, the Denver Nuggets and, yes, the Nets as young teams that weathered harrowing days and re-emerged in solid shape.“All of these teams went through hell,” Fizdale said. “You got to get steeled up. This league is not going to let you walk in here as a young team and just think you’re going to come out winning.”Not long after those remarks, the Knicks traded Porzingis. My eldest son, Nick, a fierce dead-ender on the question of team loyalties, is now recommending a family summit with a single agenda item: to switch or not to switch to the Nets?This feels almost as inconceivable as trading a 23-year-old star-in-the-making for potsherds.Mission accomplished all around.Email: powellm@nytimes.comAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyFans tuning in to Saturday’s marquee matchup between Duke and Virginia waited less than two minutes before getting what they came for. On an early Virginia possession, Duke’s Zion Williamson, the impossible freshman who moves with a guard’s agility while weighing 280 pounds, recovered a loose ball and hammered down a two-handed dunk with Old Testament fury.Williamson is expected to be the top pick in this year’s N.B.A. draft and has been this season’s signature player — a quality so inseparable from his ferocious slams that a rare missed dunk last week against Boston College became a highlight in its own right.The only other player who has come close to capturing the collective imagination as Williamson is Murray State’s Ja Morant, a 6-foot-3 sophomore who has played his way from virtual anonymity to likely top-five draft position on a diet of Jordan-esque leaping, flying slams.That Williamson and Morant are this season’s college basketball folk heroes is in one sense entirely logical. Dunks are popular, they dunk well, therefore they are popular.Yet in the context of recent history and current basketball trends, they are outliers as stars because they are relatively poor shooters from long distance.Neither player can efficiently utilize the 3-pointer, which has cemented itself as the most treasured tool in the modern offensive game. Williamson has made less than 30 percent of the 47 3-pointers he has attempted. Morant is at 32.7 percent, below the Division I average of 34.3 percent.Williamson’s attitude toward the 3-pointer may be best summarized not by any of his own shots, but by his sensational block of De’Andre Hunter’s ill-fated attempt late in Saturday’s game, an 81-71 Duke victory.Their proficiency in dunking over long-distance shooting signals how special they are, of course, but also might herald a market correction in which basketball’s most reliable shot is back in.In recent seasons, the defining players — the ones who made the biggest impacts and summed up the college basketball zeitgeist — have overwhelmingly been sharpshooters. Think of Oklahoma’s Trae Young and Buddy Hield, Kansas’ Frank Mason III, Indiana’s Yogi Ferrell, Purdue’s Caleb Swanigan and even Duke’s infamous Grayson Allen. The last 7-footer to be named player of the year, Wisconsin’s Frank Kaminsky, was not a high-volume shooter of 3s, but he made 41.6 percent of his attempts in his Wooden Award-winning season. Villanova won a title at the buzzer when Kris Jenkins hit a 3.Yet this year’s watch list for the Wooden Award includes Williamson and Morant along with other poor-shooting yet exciting non-big men like Duke’s R.J. Barrett and Tennessee’s Grant Williams. Marquette’s Markus Howard has received comparatively little attention as this year’s exemplary high-volume, high-accuracy distance shooter.The ESPN analyst Jay Bilas said dunks were emerging as more crucial to offenses because so-called midrange shots — 2-point attempts that are not from close in near the basket — have been so devalued by analytics. Get to the rim. Get fouled. Or take a 3. Those are the modern basketball credos.Bilas said it was possible that, after several years in which the 3-pointer has predominated in top offenses, coaches have improved at devising defenses to stymie perimeter shooting — in that way placing a premium on wing players who excel at close range. But mainly Williamson and Morant stand out because they are standouts.“We’re seeing more dunks because there are more spectacular athletes out there,” he said.“A lot of guys can dunk, but he dunks on the way up,” he added of Williamson. “His head is literally at or over the rim every time.”Recent seasons’ emphasis on the 3 was easy to understand if you looked to the N.B.A.’s discovery of the 3-pointer’s efficiency. The Golden State Warriors emerged as a dynasty thanks in part to their high-volume 3-point shooting, and even they have been surpassed by teams like the Houston Rockets who attempt 3s at record numbers while confining their other shots to the restricted area under the basket.Meanwhile, the trey picked up a cachet that had previously been reserved only for the jam. Players who sank one from deep mimicked bow-and-arrow shots toward their benches, igniting their teammates; Stephen Curry, Hield and Young became the players youngsters aspired to play like.And to be sure, 3-pointers have not gone away. This season they account for nearly a third of the points scored in Division I, according to KenPom.com, the highest ever and part of a steady upward trajectory. Teams are making 34.3 percent of attempts, which is just a few fractions of a percent off the past couple years’ heights.What have positively plummeted are, as Bilas suggested, midrange attempts. According to Ken Pomeroy, KenPom.com’s proprietor, midrange shots — defined essentially as 2-point attempts beyond a couple feet from the basket — account for barely a quarter of total field goal attempts this season. That figure was 33 percent as recently as the 2012-13 season.“The 15- to 20-footers are becoming extinct,” Pomeroy said in an interview.With players setting up farther from the basket, the dunk opportunity has opened perhaps more than ever before. And into that breach have stepped an uncommonly talented crop of dunkers.“This is the best dunking college basketball has seen in a while,” said Chuck Millan, a dunk coach involved not only with high schoolers but with the N.B.A.’s dunk contest, which will be staged Saturday night.Millan highlighted lesser known players with sensational abilities, including Connecticut’s Kwintin Williams, Florida Gulf Coast’s Troy Baxter and Arkansas-Little Rock’s Rayjon Tucker — “a freak of nature,” as Millan put it.As for Williamson and Morant, Millan said that, as with chocolate and vanilla, a comparison comes down to personal preference — although he may ultimately fall on Team Zion.“With Ja, it’s the dunks in traffic, because he’s little, and the body contact he takes,” Millan said. “Zion, being 6-8, 280, seeing him be just so agile and almost ballerina-like, being such a huge dude — it’s more impressive.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. season unofficially began with a superstar’s trade demand before the superstar in question (Jimmy Butler) and his team at the time (Minnesota) had even convened for training camp.Seven months and more than 1,200 games later, Magic Johnson upstaged the retirements of two legends — Dirk Nowitzki and Dwyane Wade — in unbecoming fashion by abruptly walking away from Jeanie Buss, LeBron James and the rest of the Los Angeles Lakers through a chaotic hour of unscheduled interviews with the news media.And there were countless dramas and controversies between those bookends, from the Houston Rockets’ poor start and near-instant divorce from Carmelo Anthony ... to the sad disintegration of the New Orleans Pelicans’ season after Anthony Davis’s trade demand … to the Lakers’ injury-driven collapse that ultimately prevented King James from reaching the postseason for the first time in 14 years.Regular season? Hardly. From Butler’s trade request to Friday’s announcement from the Lakers that they were parting ways with Coach Luke Walton, it was an exhausting ride. Yet we’ve finally arrived where we wanted to be all along: Saturday’s start of the playoffs.The overriding question now, as we step off that roller coaster and onto another, remains Golden State-centric for the fourth successive spring:Can anyone out there beat the Warriors four times in a seven-game series?My answer remains a firm no. But what will make this postseason unlike any other, beyond LeBron’s absence, is the array of ancillary questions sure to sprout about the futures of the Warriors and many of the teams chasing them.Only 80 days away, remember, is the July 1 start of a free-agent frenzy that is bound to be strongly influenced by playoff results. The principals: Golden State’s Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and DeMarcus Cousins; Boston’s Kyrie Irving; Toronto’s Kawhi Leonard; Philadelphia’s Tobias Harris and Butler; Milwaukee’s Khris Middleton; Charlotte’s Kemba Walker; and Orlando’s Nikola Vucevic.Just to name 10 past, present and future All-Stars.“I think this summer is going to be the most pivotal time in N.B.A. history,” said Charles Barkley, Turner Sports’ Hall of Fame analyst. “It’s going to dictate the next five years.”Any chance the Raptors have of persuading Leonard to stay in Canada, after months of noise suggesting that the Los Angeles Clippers are the front-runners to sign him, would seem to depend on a run to the N.B.A. finals. The Raptors are indeed my pick to get there by winning the post-LeBron East, but the high stakes involved, along with Toronto’s tortured playoff history, will weigh heavily on this team despite its potential as a defensive juggernaut.The pressure is even more tangible in Philadelphia thanks to the 76ers’ all-in trades for Harris and Butler. Those two, along with the sharpshooting J J Redick, are all free agents-to-be. It’s a lot for Sixers Coach Brett Brown to manage, especially when his best player, Joel Embiid, may not be available for the start of Philadelphia’s first-round series with the Nets because of a knee issue that has lingered since the All-Star Game. Whispers about Brown’s job security, as a result, are starting to circulate.Uncertainty likewise smothers the Celtics, who failed to even win 50 games and openly grappled with chemistry issues after finding the reintegration of Irving and Gordon Hayward, the former All-Star swingman, far more complicated than anyone — Boston officials included — expected. Fears of a two-round injury absence for the rugged guard Marcus Smart don’t help, with the looming specter of Irving’s free agency and a possible trade pursuit of Davis adding to the tension.Milwaukee, meanwhile, has the statistical profile of a team that should be heavily favored to represent the East in the finals and potentially take down the Warriors — except for the fact that the next playoff series won by the otherworldly Giannis Antetokounmpo will be his first. The Bucks are the only team in the league that ranked in the top five in offensive and defensive efficiency, but I confess to being one of those old-school pundits hung up on their lack of big-game experience.Denver is the West’s answer to Milwaukee and proof as a No. 2 seed that there were some uplifting tales to celebrate amid all of the transactional chaos and personality conflicts that tend to dominate the league’s slice of the social media universe. But the Nuggets’ own inexperience didn’t just steer me away from naming them as the Warriors’ top threat in the conference — it makes them vulnerable in Round 1 against San Antonio.It’s Houston, then, which stands as the team most capable of derailing the Warriors’ bid for a three-peat. Houston’s problem is that a costly slip to the No. 4 seed in the West dropped it into Golden State’s half of the playoff bracket. The Rockets now must face the Utah Jazz in a first-round matchup featuring the hottest (Houston went 20-5) and third-hottest (Utah went 18-7) teams since the All-Star break.For all the talk that the Rockets may benefit from a rematch with the Warriors in the conference semifinals rather than the West finals, when James Harden and Chris Paul are theoretically fresher, it may actually be Golden State that benefits the most from watching Houston and Utah beating each other up so early.The Warriors won’t refuse the help, either, because their veterans and coaches would undoubtedly argue that their regular-season grind is longer than anyone’s after four consecutive trips to the championship round. Ceaseless speculation about Durant’s potential free-agent defection to the Knicks or the Nets — yes, I’m indeed warning you now not to sleep on Brooklyn — has only added to Coach Steve Kerr’s daily challenge to keep his team focused.Another warning: Don’t forget that the Warriors tend to find that focus quickly once the calendar flips to the postseason. So many of their last 82 games were billed as uncharacteristically joyless, but Golden State is 32-6 in the playoffs since adding Durant.As long as Stephen Curry’s ankle scare earlier this week scare proves as minor as it appeared, bank on the Warriors to become the first team in 52 seasons — out of the 744 teams to reach the playoffs in that time — to make a fifth straight finals appearance. And then snag title No. 4 to cement themselves as indisputably dynastic.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Howard MegdalAaron Gordon sat slouched in front of his locker, immobile as ice packs worked on his body following yet another loss earlier this season. His Orlando Magic teammates showered and dressed, and left.Gordon’s back had been bothering him, and no wonder: He’s in his fifth year of carrying the Magic franchise. And he is in for the long haul, too. After doing what he described as “due diligence” this past summer, Gordon signed a four-year, $80 million contract, handing over most of his mid-20s to a team that, so far, has failed to put a winning combination around him.But if the 6-foot-9 multidimensional star is still waiting for a winning supporting cast, his 2018-19 season is the latest, best evidence yet that he is approaching a specific kind of broad-based play that is fast becoming a requirement for surviving in the N.B.A.Gordon showed it off days ago in a 103-96 win over the Golden State Warriors.He did it all, scoring 22 points, pulling down 15 rebounds and using his defensive athleticism to help limit the Warriors to 9-for-40 shooting from 3-point range. By the end of last week, the surging Magic had found themselves in eighth place in the Eastern Conference and in new territory for Gordon: the playoff race.It has taken every skill Gordon has, but for his part, the 23-year-old has embraced the way the competition in the N.B.A. has demanded that he do virtually everything on any given night.“Versatility is going to be a huge part. The league is going in that direction,” Gordon said. “So it’s going to be 6-9, 6-10, 6-11, 7-foot guys able to do everything — handle the ball, pass, shoot, rebound. That’s the way the game is going to be.”And that’s the way the game is for Gordon, and how it has been dating back to his high school days at Archbishop Mitty in San Jose, Calif., where he played point guard before a late growth spurt turned him into a 6-foot-9 forward at Arizona, and then the fourth overall pick in the 2014 N.B.A. draft.The Magic can use Gordon anywhere.For three consecutive possessions in a game against the Houston Rockets in January, Gordon found himself bringing the ball up the floor and feeding center Nikola Vucevic in the post, settling out on the wing for a 3-pointer on a catch-and-shoot, and then posting up himself.“Offensively, his efficiency is up, and his assists are way up,” Magic Coach Steve Clifford said of Gordon. “I think one of our issues has been drawing fouls and getting the ball going into the paint. And that’s something he’s done a good job with.”Gordon was back in San Jose this past summer, getting up 300 shots every day, and the result has been a 53.3 true shooting percentage, his most efficient showing in three years, even as he’s taken more shots from everywhere on the court and opposing defenses have constructed game plans around stopping him.But he also put in extra time on work like slide steps, all with the long-range goal of becoming an elite two-way player. Clifford said Gordon laid out his plans for himself when the two first spoke after Clifford was hired over the summer.The results have been extraordinary. Per Synergy, Gordon ranks second (of 140 qualified players) in the N.B.A. in points per possession on isolation plays, minimum 40 possessions, with 0.545 points per possession.And he isn’t doing this against just bigs, either: The Magic routinely play him against the opposing team’s biggest offensive threat.When the Magic played the Nets in January, Orlando had Gordon take on Joe Harris, a shooting guard, the league leader in three-point percentage and winner of the three-point contest during All-Star weekend.“That speaks to, first of all, what they think of Joe, and also what they think of Gordon’s defensive game,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “And defensively, when he wants to stop a guy, he can stop him — he has phenomenal athleticism.”The extent of Gordon’s abilities on that end were revealed further against the Nets that night, when a switch landed Gordon on the Nets’ D’Angelo Russell, an uber-quick point guard in the midst of the finest scoring barrage of his career. Russell feinted left, right, trying to find a pathway with his dribble from the top of the key. Gordon did not let him pass, and Russell, clearly frustrated, finally shunted the ball off to a teammate.The indications that Gordon has become a star are there. What is far less clear is how Orlando puts a championship team around him, though Clifford effusively endorsed him as the model player of that future roster.“He fits with what wins in the N.B.A. right now,” Clifford said. “He’s 23, and he’s made terrific gains, already, this year.”Clifford is a capable coach, in his first season with Orlando. But the roster looks less like a plan and more like a series of one-off moves. Vucevic is an excellent, traditional center, but his presence has kept Gordon, along with young bigs Mo Bamba and Jonathan Isaac, from getting significant time developing as the kind of stretch 5s most teams around the league deploy.Gordon is picked to run the offense, and does so effectively — his assist percentage of 16.4 is a career high — but that is in part because Orlando lacks a true starting point guard. Markelle Fultz may be the answer long-term, but whether the embattled former Philadelphia 76ers guard even plays this season remains a mystery.Gordon’s next step, per Clifford, needs to be the role of go-to scorer down the stretch of games, which Gordon agrees with. Will it happen?“Well, we’ll see,” Clifford said. “I mean, that’s what it’s all about. We’ll see.”But he needs help getting to those late-game situations with a chance to win it. Still, as Gordon eases into superstardom in the relative obscurity of Orlando’s slow rise in the East, he often uses visualization to help motivate himself, closing his eyes and picturing what a championship for the only franchise he’s ever known would look like.He said it gets hard to see it sometimes, pointing out that “a lot of things have to go right” even as he said he was sure it will.“Of course,” Gordon said, pulling on his pants gingerly, navigating his sore back.Toppling the Warriors last week showed Gordon just may be right. Losing to the lowly Cleveland Cavaliers on Sunday night, though, showed how far the Magic have to go.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLou Williams, who has the unusual role of leading the Clippers in scoring while coming off the bench, does not run around the court so much as flutter across it. At 6 feet 1 inch and 175 pounds, he has embraced his identity as a butterfly among a herd of cattle.But at this stage of his career, Williams wants to feel as light and nimble as possible — so he essentially starves himself on game days. After a big breakfast, he refuses to eat again until well after the game itself, often going nearly 12 hours between meals.It is one of several habits that Williams, 32, has developed over the years, and one that clearly works for him. It is also the opposite of how most elite athletes prepare for games. But Williams is different: He wants to take the court with an appetite.“That’s crazy,” Landry Shamet, the first-year Clippers guard, said. “I’d weigh about 115 pounds if I did that.”The Clippers, as they often have this season, turned to Williams on Monday night for an extraordinary performance — this time against the Golden State Warriors in Game 2 of their first-round playoff series. In the Clippers’ 135-131 win, Williams collected 36 points and 11 assists to help erase a 31-point deficit.Shamet sealed the biggest comeback in N.B.A. playoff history with a go-ahead 3-pointer with 16.5 seconds left, and the Clippers evened the best-of-seven series at one game apiece.“I’m one of those guys who can get hot,” said Williams, who shot 13 of 22 from the field, “and I just got lost in the moment.”The Clippers, who have thrived behind Williams in the wake of a midseason deal that sent Tobias Harris to the Philadelphia 76ers, will need all of him again — all his scoring, all his savvy, all his unusual rituals — when the Warriors come to Los Angeles for Game 3 on Thursday.Make no mistake, the Clippers have their share of scrappy, no-nonsense guys. Patrick Beverley, who has spent the series covering the Warriors’ Kevin Durant like aluminum foil, would trash talk a telephone pole.Williams, on the other hand, carries himself with a brand of quiet composure that has a power all its own.“He goes about his business,” said Sam Cassell, an assistant coach for the Clippers. “He’s not overwhelmingly faster than people. He’s not bigger than people. But he understands what he can do on the basketball court, and he does it well.”The Warriors’ Klay Thompson recently came across a package of highlight clips from Williams’s days as a star guard at South Gwinnett High School outside of Atlanta. What stood out to Thompson was how little Williams had changed.“He played the exact same way,” Thompson said in an interview before the start of the series. “It was incredible: same step-back jumper, same hesitations, same floaters.”Williams has stuck with the same general blueprint while refining his skills — slicker, craftier, jazzier. He has also become more resilient. There was a time, he said, when he thought his career might be finished. In 2013, he tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee while playing for the Atlanta Hawks. In his comeback, he turned to Kenny Atkinson, who was then one of the team’s assistants, to help reassemble his game.Atkinson, now the head coach of the Nets, imbued Williams with the importance of routine.“Kenny is one of my all-time favorite people in the world,” Williams said. “I give him a lot of credit for getting me back on my feet when I was down and out.”By 2015, Williams was the N.B.A.’s sixth man of the year with the Toronto Raptors. But he has never been better, more efficient or more dynamic than he has been in his last two seasons with the Clippers, all at an age — early 30s — when most players see their production begin to erode.Instead, Williams, who has scored more points off the bench than any other player in league history, has only improved. This season, he averaged 20 points and 5.4 assists in just 26.6 minutes a game. Williams also had the ball in his hands more than ever, with the Clippers running 32.4 percent of their plays through him whenever he was on the court, according to usage-rate statistics compiled by Basketball Reference.Coming off the bench was never something that he necessarily wanted to do, but Williams has no doubt that the role has helped preserve his career because it has kept his minutes down. He has averaged 24.6 minutes a game over his 14-year career. (LeBron James, by comparison, has averaged 38.6 minutes.)“It’s given me an opportunity to stretch my career out, and I think I’m in my prime right now, man,” Williams said. “I’m just rolling.”At the same time, Williams has his quirky customs, which help give him a sense of stability, starting with his game-day breakfast: hash browns, egg whites, French toast and chicken sausage along with a fruit smoothie that he sweetens with honey. He loads up because he knows he won’t eat again for a while.“I guess my body’s gotten used to it,” Williams said, who will just do the smoothie if the Clippers have an early tipoff.He also has the peculiar habit of arriving at the arena on the late side, about 90 minutes before the start of the game.“I don’t like idle time,” he said.Once there, though, Williams has an active schedule: 15 minutes in the training room getting stretched out, 10 minutes in the weight room doing exercises with a stretch band and a medicine ball, then about 17 minutes on the court making 150 field goals as Cassell feeds him passes.Before a recent home game ahead of the playoffs, Williams made nearly 80 percent of his attempts, including two skyscraping moonshots from the baseline, which is a shot that he has developed in case a 7-footer lunges at him with his arms extended. Williams says he only practices shots that he will attempt in games, however improbable or acrobatic.“I catch myself at least two or three times a game just putting my hands up, like, ‘How did that even happen?’” Shamet said.Williams wraps up his on-court work with 20 free throws and 10 court-width sprints, then retreats to the locker room to put on his ankle braces and check his phone. “Just to make sure there’s no family emergencies or anything like that,” he said.With 20 minutes on the clock, the Clippers have their team meeting. Before they head to the court, Williams gathers his teammates around him for one final huddle — or rather, they gather around him, as if he has some sort of gravitational pull.Once the game begins, Williams takes a seat on the bench — which is the only time he stops moving. But he is watching his potential defenders and studying the flow, readying himself for the moment when he sheds his warm-ups late in the first quarter.If Cassell can pinpoint one flaw, it might be that Williams commits too many turnovers. He is an excellent passer, especially coming off ball screens — Shamet considers him one of the most underrated passers in the league — but he sometimes tries to do too much, Cassell said. So Cassell will remind Williams to do what he does best: Shoot the ball. It is what everyone wants to see from Williams, who is regarded around the league as a player whom other players love to watch.“It means a lot coming from my peers,” Williams said. “I think as competitors, that’s why we get into this, to gain respect from the guys who have played the game, and you walk away and they say, ‘He was a tough cover — that dude was nice.’”All while being fueled with a hunger of his own creation.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Hours after Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Los Angeles Lakers’ president of basketball operations, and mere minutes after LeBron James’s first season as the franchise cornerstone ended with a buzzer-beating loss, James left Staples Center on Tuesday night without speaking to reporters, trailed only by security officers and questions about the team’s future.It was not the season anyone envisioned for the Lakers, who had upended the N.B.A. by signing James last summer with the hype and expectation of returning the franchise to its glory years. One of the most storied teams in the league, the Lakers have not won a championship in nine years, and Los Angeles is frustrated, hungry and impatient.Instead, the team collected nearly as many injuries as losses. James, who will miss the N.B.A. playoffs beginning Saturday for the first time in 14 years, watched the final six games of the season from the bench as the team looked to preserve him for next season. His next buzzy stop is a studio lot as the star of “Space Jam 2,” which he has said is set to begin filming this summer.For the Lakers (37-45), all the drama was off the court, right up to the end, with Johnson’s abrupt announcement so out-of-the-blue that he had not even told his boss, the team owner Jeanie Buss, before wading into a gaggle of reporters.[Here is a look at Magic Johnson’s biggest moments as team president.]On Wednesday morning, Johnson, 59, wrote on Twitter that he considers himself a “Laker for life.”He announced in 1991 that he was H.I.V. positive but said Tuesday that he was in good health and it was not a factor in his decision.Johnson had sealed a $154 million, four-year deal for James — two greats fulfilling their needs: Johnson to restore luster to a glamorous team; James to close out his career as a Laker and develop his business and entertainment interests centered on Hollywood.And now they both left Staples Center with a losing record and a team in chaos.In some ways, it was the perfect finale to a season that trafficked in dysfunction.So there was the coach, Luke Walton, saying what losing coaches always say: essentially, wait until next year. His job may have been saved when Johnson quit, but he would not talk about that.“We have a lot of time to work and get better,” Walton said late Tuesday after the Lakers’ loss to the Portland Trail Blazers. “Let’s organize and prioritize what we need to do so we can give ourselves a better chance next season.”It was a wasted season for everyone involved, and James is as polarizing as ever, even in Los Angeles, where as much as fans banked on him, they also retained a degree of skepticism that this was all real.Jonas Never, a prominent Los Angeles-based street artist, found that out the hard way.“Honestly,” Never said in a telephone interview, “Lakers fans are the trickiest.”Last July, he had talked a restaurant owner in Venice Beach into allowing him to paint a mural of James in a Lakers jersey to commemorate his arrival: 75 cans of spray paint in 12 hours for the “King of L.A.”It did not take long for the mural to be vandalized — not just once, but twice in a span of four days. The first time, it was salvageable. Someone had defaced the wall with the words “We Don’t Want You” and “No King,” along with “3-6,” a reference to James’s losing record in the N.B.A. finals. But Never was able to restore the mural. (“A two-minute fix,” he said.)The second time, someone splashed yellow paint all over James’s face, and Never had no choice but to paint over it.“If it had been a car, it would have been totaled,” he said.To be fair, most fans were excited about James. The news media coverage was breathless. And perhaps no member of the ticket-paying public had invested more in LeBron-to-L.A. than Jacob Emrani, a personal injury lawyer from Beverly Hills, Calif., who had purchased space for 40 James-themed billboards in the run-up to free agency.“I definitely didn’t think it was going to be something where we missed the playoffs or thought, ‘What the hell is happening here?’ ” Emrani said in an interview. “I’m disappointed in the breaks we got, but I’m not necessarily disappointed in LeBron. We were in fourth place when he went down.”Emrani was referring to what may have been the season’s turning point: the Lakers’ ill-fated Christmas Day game against the Golden State Warriors, which James himself cited in a recent interview with Spectrum SportsNet, the Lakers’ broadcast partner. The Lakers were playing solid basketball at the time — in fact, they clobbered the Warriors to improve their record to 20-14 — but James injured his groin in the third quarter and wound up missing the next 17 games. The Lakers went into a tailspin without him.“Disappointed in my body,” James told Spectrum SportsNet, adding: “Because I knew exactly where we were at that point. And we just were never able to get back from that.”Once James returned, the team’s front office unsuccessfully tried to engineer a trade for another big star, the New Orleans Pelicans’ Anthony Davis — this, after James had told ESPN that it would be “amazing” to play alongside Davis.The plan appeared to be to essentially trade away the rest of the team. The fallout was clear: Whatever fragile bonds that remained in the home locker room at Staples Center seemed to fray at the seams.For many fans, it was impossible to dissociate James from the failed trade — James and Davis share an agent, Rich Paul — and much of the mess that followed.“Nearly everyone on the roster was involved in those trade rumors,” Never said. “How can you really feel wanted if you think you’re going to be packing your locker the next day?”As the losses mounted, so did the criticisms of James: that he appeared detached from his teammates, that basketball was secondary to his growing interest in his entertainment company, that his body was finally breaking down after so many years of athletic genius, that he was no longer capable of carrying a team to a title.But in the 55 games that James did play this season, he was pretty good. He averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists a game while shooting 51 percent from the field. Besides, a long summer may benefit him after so many extended playoff runs.“The only thing that was hard was that he got hurt,” Walton said late Tuesday night. “It takes time to build a relationship with somebody. But as our relationship grew and I got to see what it was like coaching him, it was great. And I believe if we could have stayed healthy, we would have had a very successful season. He’s an incredible player.”For his part, James told Spectrum SportsNet that he wanted to use the summer to get his body back to “120 percent” ahead of training camp — even as he moonlights on the set of “Space Jam 2.” He has been adamant that his work in entertainment will not interfere with his work on the basketball court.The question is whether one bad season will become two. So much hinges on the summer as the Lakers look to add another star to their roster. (Emrani said he had plans for more billboards, though he declined to say which top-tier free agents he would target.) James has said that he will be as involved in the team’s recruiting efforts as possible.“I’m looking forward to seeing who jumps in the car with me and wants to take this ride to the top,” James said in his interview with Spectrum SportsNet. “I know what I bring to the game. I know my commitment to the game. I’ve never cheated the game, and throughout my career, it’s always given back to me.”Back in Venice Beach, Never painted a new mural during the middle of the N.F.L. season, replacing LeBron James with Derwin James, a safety for the Los Angeles Chargers. The mural has been up for months, Never said, and no one has touched it.An earlier version of this article misstated when LeBron James injured his groin during a game against the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day. It was in the third quarter, not the first half.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Luke Kennard scored 27 points, Reggie Jackson had 21 and Andre Drummond added 20 points and 18 rebounds as the Detroit Pistons locked up the Eastern Conference's final playoff spot with a 115-89 victory over the New York Knicks on Wednesday night.The Pistons will face the top-seeded Milwaukee Bucks in the opening round.Jackson scored 14 points and Drummond had 10 points and seven rebounds in the first quarter as the Pistons never trailed and led by as many as 16 points. Neither Jackson nor Drummond played in the fourth quarter.Wayne Ellington added 12 points for the Pistons, who hadn't made the playoffs since the 2015-16 season, the last time they finished over .500 (44-38). Before, Detroit hadn't made the postseason since 2008-09.John Jenkins led the Knicks with 16 points, and Kadeem Allen added 13. Henry Ellenson scored 12 points, and Mitchell Robinson and Isaiah Hicks each had 11.NUGGETS 99, TIMBERWOLVES 95DENVER (AP) — Nikola Jokic had 29 points, 14 rebounds and had a key strip in the closing seconds as Denver scored the game's final 15 points and secured the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs.James Murray added 17 for the Nuggets, who are in the postseason for the first time in six years and will face seventh-seeded San Antonio.Gorgui Dieng added 18 points for the Timberwolves backups and rookie Cameron Reynolds scored a career-best 17 points, including a 3-pointer that put Minnesota ahead 95-84 with 4:01 left.TRAIL BLAZERS 136, KINGS 131PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) — Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a career-high 37 points in his first start of the season and Portland secured the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference using just six players in a win over Sacramento.The Blazers have won 14 of 17 games en route to their sixth straight trip to the playoffs. Portland will open the postseason against the Oklahoma City Thunder, who finished in sixth.Marvin Bagley III had 20 points to lead the Kings, who lost their 11th straight game in Portland.CLIPPERS 143, JAZZ 137, OTLOS ANGELES (AP) — Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead seven players in double figures and the Clippers beat Utah in overtime, snapping a three-game skid to close the regular season.Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Patrick Beverley had 14 points in his return from injury.The Clippers' losing streak had already dropped them from the sixth seed to No. 8 in the playoffs, where they'll open against the defending champion Golden State Warriors.Grayson Allen led Utah with a career-high 40 points. The rookie made 13 of 14 free throws and five 3-pointers, but was limited to four points in overtime.The Jazz earned the fifth seed and they'll play No. 4 Houston in the first round.THUNDER 127, BUCKS 116MILWAUKEE (AP) — Russell Westbrook got his 34th triple-double of the season and Oklahoma City beat Milwaukee to lock up the sixth seed in the Western Conference playoffs.Oklahoma City played without injured Paul George, but Westbrook, Jerami Grant and Dennis Schroder led a hot-shooting effort from 3-point range. Westbrook had 15 points, 17 assists and 11 rebounds. He moved into a tie with Magic Johnson for second place on the career triple-double list with 138. Schroder had 32 points, and Grant added a career-best 28.The Bucks had already clinched the No. 1 seed in the Eastern Conference and rested star Giannis Antetokounmpo and some other key players.Khris Middleton scored 21 points in 17 minutes. Tim Frazier scored a career-high 29 points and D.J. Wilson added a career-high 18 while grabbing 17 rebounds. Rookie Bonzie Colson started and scored 21 points.MAGIC 122, HORNETS 114CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) — Kemba Walker scored 43 points in what may be his final game with Charlotte, a loss to Orlando that eliminated the Hornets from playoff contention.Terrence Ross scored a season-high 35 points, Aaron Gordon added 27 and the Magic clinched the seventh seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs and will face the Toronto Raptors in the first round.Aside from Walker's sharp shooting, nothing went right for Charlotte on the final night of the regular season. The loss also means Tony Parker's string of 17 straight playoff appearances is over.NETS 113, HEAT 94NEW YORK (AP) — Dwyane Wade recorded one last triple-double before heading off to retirement, and Brooklyn headed to Philadelphia to take on the 76ers in the first round of the Eastern Conference playoffs after securing the win and the No. 6 seed.Wade had 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in his final NBA game with close friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony leading the cheers from their courtside seats.D'Angelo Russell had 21 points on seven 3-pointers for the Nets, who will face the third-seeded 76ers beginning this weekend in their first postseason appearance since 2015.SPURS 105, MAVERICKS 94SAN ANTONIO (AP) — LaMarcus Aldridge had 34 points and 16 rebounds and San Antonio beat Dallas in Dirk Nowitzki's final game.Nowitzki finished with 20 points and 10 rebounds in the finale of his storied 21-season career — all with the Mavericks.The Spurs head into the Western Conference playoffs as the No. 7 seed.DeMar Derozan finished with 19 points and Derrick White added 14 for the Spurs, who finished with a 49-34 record.GRIZZLIES 132, WARRIORS 117MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) — Jevon Carter scored a career-high 32 points, Justin Holiday added 22 and Memphis beat Golden State in the teams' regular-season finale.Kevin Durant led the Warriors with 21 points, while Klay Thompson finished with 19. Durant and Thompson, who sat out Tuesday's win at New Orleans, were the only Golden State starters to play. Both saw action only in the first half.Golden State entered the game with its playoff position set atop of the Western Conference and sat most of its stars.Carter, a rookie from West Virginia who was averaging 3.7 points, was 10 of 18 from the field and 8 of 12 from 3-point range. Memphis was helped by 21-of-46 shooting from 3-point range.Bruno Caboclo scored 21 points, and Delon Wright recorded his third triple-double in the last four games with 13 points, 11 rebounds and 11 assists.76ERS 125, BULLS 109PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points to lead Philadelphia over Chicago in the regular-season finale for both teams.In preparation for the playoffs, the 76ers rested all five starters, and star center Joel Embiid's status for the opener is in question. The third-seeded Sixers said the 7-foot center's achy left knee may prevent him from playing in the postseason opener this weekend against sixth-seeded Brooklyn.Walt Lemon Jr. scored 20 points to lead the Bulls, who were without Denzel Valentine, Wendell Carter Jr., Chandler Hutchison, Zach LaVine, Lauri Markkanen, Otto Porter Jr. and Kris Dunn.PACERS 135, HAWKS 134ATLANTA (AP) — Edmond Sumner sank three free throws with three-tenths of a second remaining, lifting playoff-bound Indiana past Atlanta.Taurean Prince's 3-pointer with 1.1 seconds remaining gave Atlanta the lead, but DeAndre Bembry's foul on Sumner's last-second 3-point attempt changed the game.TJ Leaf set career highs with 28 points and 10 rebounds for Indiana.Tyreke Evans scored 27 points and Sumner had 22 as the Pacers won despite resting most of their top scorers.Prince and Trae Young each scored 23 points for Atlanta. John Collins scored 20 points and set a career high with 25 rebounds.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaNEW ORLEANS — The New Orleans Pelicans have scuffled along for years as one of the N.B.A.’s worker-bee franchises, a respectable team but not one that has vied for championships. They lose as often as they win and play their home games in an arena called the Smoothie King Center, where a big-beaked mascot named Pierre roams the crowd.But in recent seasons, the team has employed someone even more special: Anthony Davis, a gifted center and one of the best players in the league. Davis has a pterodactyl-length wingspan and a unibrow, which has become as much a part of his persona as his skyscraping dunks. Fans know him as “The Brow,” as if he were a superhero who draws strength from his facial hair.New Orleans used to love him for it — until two weeks ago, when he shook the league and asked the Pelicans to trade him. The Pelicans, in return, made a bold move of their own: They refused to let him go, at least not yet.Now Davis and New Orleans are stuck together in basketball purgatory — “It definitely is different,” said Jrue Holiday, the team’s starting point guard — and the city’s long-suffering sports fans can only wonder: What do we do now?“It’s not a new thing that guys demand to be traded,” Alvin Gentry, the Pelicans coach, said in an interview, “but I thought the timing of it kind of put everybody in a tough situation.”It has been a soul-crushing few weeks for sports fans here. They absorbed a major blow last month when the New Orleans Saints, who are as much a tent revival as football team, lost to the Los Angeles Rams in the N.F.L. playoffs after a missed call by the referees, which may have cost the Saints a trip to the Super Bowl.A week later, Davis’s agent, Rich Paul, announced publicly that Davis wanted out of New Orleans and would not sign a contract extension.“Now that he’s going to leave, I’m excited to see what we can get for him,” said Ryan Bergeron, a 22-year-old legal assistant from New Orleans who is a regular at Pelicans games. Like many fans, Bergeron owns one of Davis’s replica jerseys — which he plans to keep in the back of his closet.“I think we’ll be better off without him,” Bergeron said.Not so long ago, Davis was throwing beads from a float as an honorary grand marshal at a Mardi Gras parade. But the city’s feelings toward him have curdled like week-old étouffée.On Friday night, when Davis played in his first home game for the Pelicans since his trade request, images of him were cut from a highlight package that played on the arena’s oversize video screens. The crowd showered him with boos that drowned out scattered cheers. As if to amplify his value while sticking it to those who expressed their displeasure, Davis collected 32 points and 9 rebounds.“It’s life, man,” Davis said of his frosty reception. “Some people aren’t going to like you.”New Orleans has dealt with its share of hardwood hardship. Franchises have come and gone, along with star players. The New Orleans Buccaneers were a charter member of the American Basketball Association from 1967 to 1970, but then relocated to Memphis. The New Orleans Jazz, founded as an N.B.A. expansion franchise in 1974, had a similarly abbreviated run before decamping for Utah in 1979.The N.B.A. returned to New Orleans in 2002 — back when the team was known as the Hornets — and eventually found a franchise star in point guard Chris Paul, who led the team to three playoff appearances before he, too, told management before the start of the 2011-12 season that he would not sign a contract extension. New Orleans traded him to the Los Angeles Clippers, then finished with the worst record in the Western Conference.But from the rubble of player discontent sprang fresh life in 2012: Tom Benson, then the owner of the Saints, bought the franchise, and the team, soon to be rebranded as the Pelicans, secured the top pick in the draft. (After Benson died last year, the ownership of both franchises was transferred to his wife, Gayle.) New Orleans used that pick on Davis, a freshman center who had just led Kentucky to an N.C.A.A. championship.Now in his seventh season, Davis is a six-time All-Star who was averaging 29 points and 13.3 rebounds entering Monday. But he has been prone to injury, and he has never led the Pelicans on a deep playoff run. The organization has made missteps — Exhibit A: re-signing Omer Asik, a Turkish forward, to a $58 million deal in 2015 — but that does not make them unique among N.B.A. teams; they are trying to compete in one of the league’s smallest markets when stars are generally gravitating toward flashier and more well-established franchises.Last season, the Pelicans were playing well behind Davis and DeMarcus Cousins, a perennial All-Star whom the team had acquired through a trade in 2017. But Cousins tore his Achilles’ tendon and missed the playoffs. Without him, the Pelicans still swept the Portland Trail Blazers in their first-round series before losing to the Golden State Warriors in the conference semifinals.Still another problem was brewing for the Pelicans. In September, Davis changed agents and hired Paul, who is known for his close relationship with LeBron James, the Los Angeles Lakers’ star forward.Paul’s tactics with the Pelicans in recent weeks in pursuit of a trade for Davis were unconventional. Tom Penn, a former executive with the Trail Blazers and an analyst for NBA TV, said in a telephone interview that most agents try to work with team executives behind the scenes. Paul, on the other hand, “threw a Molotov cocktail in the middle of the room,” Penn said.It became a public spectacle, and the Pelicans responded by releasing a statement in which they said they would do a deal “on our own terms and our own timeline.” Sure enough, they rebuffed the Lakers — one of Davis’s preferred trade destinations — in their attempts to pry Davis loose.Once Thursday’s trade deadline passed, the Pelicans landed a final jab by tweeting an emoji of an hourglass that had run out.Aside from avoiding the public-relations pitfalls of being stuck with a star who no longer wants to be there, the Pelicans had little incentive to make a deal ahead of the trade deadline. More teams will be better positioned to make offers for Davis in the off-season, and the Pelicans’ haul in exchange for him could be huge.New Orleans also showed some pluck. At a time when some players are seizing greater power to determine the arc of their careers, the Pelicans decided that they would trade Davis when they are ready.Now, with Davis tethered to them for the remainder of the season — he is a lottery ticket they will wait to cash — the Pelicans are searching for a way forward.“What we’re trying to do is get back to normal,” said Gentry, the team’s coach, “and what our new normal is — we haven’t quite figured it out yet.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Consider the following scenes from the N.B.A.’s annual bacchanal/business convention known as All-Star weekend:Spike Lee standing on a street corner waiting for the crosswalk signal. Stan Kroenke, whose family owns the Denver Nuggets, holding court in a hotel lobby. Joel Embiid, the star center of the Philadelphia 76ers, making small talk with the governor of North Carolina. An army of personal stylists waiting to be summoned by their clients for some of the flashiest events of the year.And then there were the agents and league officials and sneakerheads and reporters, some of whom traveled great distances to make unconventional requests of the weekend’s main attractions.“Shout out to my fans in Mongolia!” John Collins of the Atlanta Hawks yelled into a camera the morning before his appearance in the Saturday slam dunk contest.[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]All-Star weekend tends to be a blend of basketball and branding, business and pleasure — a showcase for a powerful league whose global influence continues to expand.“The whole weekend,” Mike Conley of the Memphis Grizzlies said, “is just a big party.”The All-Star Game itself, scheduled for Sunday night, felt secondary to just about everything else in the host city, as it has for many years. Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets, recalled waiting in line in 2006 for one of the more popular parties at All-Star weekend in Houston, where he watched Maciej Lampe — a center from Poland who appeared in 64 career games over parts of three seasons — bypass the line so that he could immediately be waved inside by security.“And I’m like, ‘Man, I’m behind Maciej Lampe?’” said Morey, who would officially join the front office of the Rockets a little more than six weeks later.All-Star weekend has only grown in recent years. One spreadsheet making the rounds in Charlotte listed more than 100 parties, and that did not include many of the more exclusive events. (Michael Jordan hosted a big one.) Thanks to a change in the league schedule, there is more partying and less deal-making than there used to be.Last year, the league moved the trade deadline up so that it preceded All-Star weekend. In the past, the deadline came a few days after the game, a sequence which helped create its share of absurdity. One of the more notorious examples came in 2017, when word leaked during the fourth quarter of the All-Star Game that the New Orleans Pelicans had struck a deal to acquire DeMarcus Cousins from the Sacramento Kings. Cousins learned of the trade during postgame interviews.The weekend vibe is different now.“It’s so much more fun,” one prominent agent said at a party that he hosted.In the corner, a disc jockey who appeared to be in his 60s spun tunes in a Hawaiian shirt and red-tinted glasses, while women wearing bright red dresses passed out hors d’oeuvres. Agents, clients and marketing honchos milled about the room.But none of this is meant to suggest that deals do not get done.On Thursday night, at a downtown hotel bar where patrons sipped $25 cocktails, a crowd of very tall men gathered as a private event wound down at a nearby steakhouse. Among the luminaries who emerged from the event: Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner; Kroenke, who also owns the Los Angeles Rams; Brian Rolapp, the N.F.L.’s chief media and business officer; Bill Simmons, the founder of The Ringer; Connor Schell, ESPN’s executive vice president for content; and Bob Myers, the general manager of the Golden State Warriors.“There are definitely conversations happening,” Morey said. “And there’s serendipity involved. You’re always bumping into people.”Morey was finishing lunch at an upscale restaurant. Warren LeGarie, a longtime agent to many coaches and executives, and Kiki Vandeweghe, the league’s executive vice president for basketball operations, were dining at nearby tables. Morey was about to head into a meeting with Vandeweghe and Monty McCutchen, who supervises the league’s referees.“Obviously, we care deeply about where the league is going,” Morey said, “so talking to Adam Silver about strategy or Monty McCutchen about changing how they might call certain things — all that kind of stuff could impact our franchise moving forward, so I try to be involved.”The atmosphere may seem more relaxed than it was two years ago, when most team executives and agents were focused on the trade deadline, but the shift in the schedule has not pushed aside the league’s most pressing issues.In Charlotte, a cloud loomed over the festivities, and it came in the shape of a unibrow.Perhaps you have heard? Anthony Davis, the star center for the Pelicans, requested a trade 10 days before the deadline.The Pelicans, though, rejected all trade offers for him and instead hope to reap better players and draft picks in a deal this summer. Last week, Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry called the drama of it all a “dumpster fire.” On Friday, the Pelicans fired their general manager. On Saturday, Davis told reporters that his list of preferred destinations included the Knicks and the Los Angeles Lakers. Hours later, Silver said he would like trade demands and discussions to remain behind closed doors.In any case, the Davis situation only underscored how much the topic of player movement dominates the league — even in the middle of the season, and even after the trade deadline. Everyone here was fixated on what could happen just over four months from now — at the start of free agency.Will Kevin Durant leave the Warriors? Will Kawhi Leonard spurn the Toronto Raptors? Will Kyrie Irving bolt from the Boston Celtics? And, again, what about Davis?“No one likes to see an instance,” Silver said, “where a player is demanding that he be traded when he’s still in the middle of a contractual obligation to a team.”Silver made those remarks, and his wish for private trade discussions, at a news conference before Saturday night’s skills, dunk and 3-point competitions.The media forum, like the carefully coordinated outfits stars wore to events around town, has become part of the event’s routine. So has the roll call of courtside A-listers during the dunk contest; this year’s included the rappers Quavo, 2 Chainz, J. Cole and Gucci Mane.All-Star weekend was not always so structured — or extravagant. Paul Westphal recalled making his first trip to an All-Star Game in 1977 as a guard for the Phoenix Suns. The league hosted a modest dinner. Players received commemorative mugs. Anyone associated with the game stayed at the same hotel in downtown Milwaukee.“It wasn’t like it is now where the game takes over the whole city,” Westphal said.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar missed practice, Westphal said, then showed up about 20 minutes before the start of the game in a fur coat. Westphal helped seal his team’s win with a late steal against Pete Maravich. It was a moment he said he would never forget.This weekend, Westphal was in Charlotte, where he was named a finalist for the Basketball Hall of Fame. He said he was not planning to attend any parties.“Just dinner with friends,” he said.In Charlotte, the streets around the host arena, Spectrum Center, were choked with traffic. Concert fliers hung from every lamppost. And none of the guests, spread among numerous hotels at premium nightly rates, seemed to mind the cold weather as countless lines formed for restaurants, bars and pop-up musical performances.Given all the extracurriculars, it was easy to forget that basketball was the only reason anyone was here in the first place — and perhaps that was because the only legitimate basketball was being played in a college gymnasium a few miles from downtown. A group of elite teenage prospects, without much fanfare, had convened for the league’s annual Basketball Without Borders Global Camp.In all, 63 boys and girls from 31 countries played in front of scouts and executives who hoped to identify the sport’s next batch of stars.“There’s a lot of talent here,” said Brooks Meek, the N.B.A.’s vice president for international basketball operations.The spotlight will find them soon enough.Kevin Draper and Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.C.A.A. Tournament: Day 1By Ben ShpigelThe scares came one after another on Thursday, paroxysms of bracket-busting possibility that stimulated hopes of buzzer-beating upsets and overtime delights, those traditional trappings of March. The scares came early and late, they hovered and they lingered, and then, alas, they faded.Instead of a mayhem-packed opening to the N.C.A.A. tournament, what unfolded across the four venues was not quite boring but rather anticlimax. For all the close games and potential for chaos, only four lower-seeded teams won, and one — No. 12 Murray State, which throttled No. 5 Marquette by 83-64 — was about as fashionable as an upset pick as a Burberry raincoat.In the evening session, the first four games featured two that were effectively over at halftime, or before: No. 2 Kentucky thrashed No. 15 Abilene Christian, 79-44, in the Midwest Region, while No. 1 Gonzaga clobbered No. 16 Fairleigh Dickinson, 87-49, out west.Another No. 12, New Mexico State, could have joined the Racers in the next round had capitalized on what could be kindly described as late incompetence by No. 5 Auburn, which escaped with a 78-77 victory in the Midwest Region. The Tigers’ coach, Bruce Pearl, might have used other choice words in private to explain how his team — which has won nine consecutive games, including the Southeastern Conference tournament — nearly bungled an 8-point lead with less than two minutes remaining.“We obviously panicked,” Pearl said, “and made our share of mistakes which could have cost us the game.”The Aggies, who had not lost since Jan. 3 and finished the season 30-5, drew to within 2 points with six seconds left. Then, the blooper reel unspooled. In that span, Auburn allowed A. J. Harris to reach the basket unchallenged; fouled Terrell Brown on a 3-pointer, awarding him three free throws; swatted the rebound of Brown’s last free throw out of bounds, giving New Mexico State possession with 1.1 seconds left; and on the ensuing inbounds play failed to cover Trevelin Queen, who airballed an uncontested 3-pointer as time expired.For his part, Harris, even though he could have tied the score with a layup, passed the ball to Brown, he said, because he was open.As Brown, the Aggies’ best 3-point specialist, released the shot, Auburn’s Bryce Brown slammed into him. With Terrell Brown on the foul line, Auburn guard J’Von McCormick put his hands to his throat, making the universal symbol for choke.“I saw in his face he was pretty scared,” McCormick said.In the aftermath, New Mexico State Coach Chris Jans said he understood that Harris would be second-guessed for kicking out the ball to Brown instead of trying for a layup himself.“Obviously at that point, it is out of your control and you have to trust your players and players make plays,” Jans said. “If he does make all three free throws or makes the three, it is an Ali Farokhmanesh moment” — Northern Iowa’s Farokhmanesh once beat Kansas, then a No. 1 seed, with a 3-pointer — “and that will be remembered forever. That’s what happens in the N.C.A.A. tournament. I trust my players. Players make plays, and it didn’t work out for us this particular time.”Pearl said he told the Tigers afterward that no matter who they play next — that would be No. 4 Kansas, which pounded No. 13 Northeastern by 87-53 — would be just as good as the Aggies.Such parity every year tends to infiltrate the tournament, minimizing the gap between mid-major darlings like Belmont and Big 10 behemoths like Maryland. No. 11 Belmont, which qualified for the tournament as an at-large team after losing in the Ohio Valley Conference final to Murray State, led at halftime, and late in the second half, before losing its East Region game, 79-77, to the sixth-seeded Terrapins.“There’s a reason they’re the second-highest scoring team in the country,” Maryland Coach Mark Turgeon said. “They’re almost impossible to guard.”Almost impossible. Maryland exploited its size advantage — Jalen Smith had 19 points and 12 rebounds, while Bruno Fernando added 14 and 13 — to score the first 12 points after halftime, but Belmont got to within a point in the closing seconds. Playing for a final shot, the Bruins tried executing a back-door play to Dylan Windler, who led the team with 34 points. Hounding guard Grayson Murphy, Maryland’s Eric Ayala deflected the pass, and Darryl Morsell, grabbing the ball, was fouled with 2.5 seconds left.“Coaches were screaming, ‘Back door!’” Morsell said. “I kind of knew it was coming.”Ja Morant — the once-underrecruited high school guard who has become an N.B.A. lottery lock — had 17 points, 11 rebounds and 16 assists as Murray State, the 12th seed in the West, thumped Marquette.Morant’s triple-double was the first in the N.C.A.A. tournament since Draymond Green, the Golden State Warriors star, did it with Michigan State in 2012. Three teammates joined him with double-digit point totals, led by the freshman Tevin Brown, who scored 19 points.It was Morant’s performance, though, that will be remembered, even if the victory was plainly a team effort by Murray State. Morant was the first day’s undeniable star, making passes of unsurpassed creativity — to the point that his teammates could not always handle them.“You know, Ja Morant makes a lot of plans look bad,” said Marquette Coach Steve Wojciechowski, himself a former point guard, at Duke. “I mean, I’ve been in this for a while. He’s as good as any guard that I’ve coached against, or played against, and I’ve coached against and played against some outstanding ones.”Nearly as impressive — O.K., maybe not — was how 10th-seeded Florida avoided an egregious collapse before winning, 70-61, in the West. The Gators scored the final seven points to silence the No. 7 Wolf Pack, who had 17 comeback victories when down by at least 10 points since 2015 and, after trailing by 18 with 13 minutes remaining, sliced Florida’s lead to 2.Villanova lost four critical members of its championship team to the N.B.A. draft afer last season, but the inexperienced Wildcats managed not only to capture the Big East title but also their opening-round game Thursday, outlasting St. Mary’s by 61-57 in the South Region. The No. 6 Wildcats endured the 11th-seeded Gaels’ slow pace, playing at a tempo Coach Jay Wright called “excruciating,” to win for the 14th time in 15 N.C.A.A. tournament games. Villanova anticipated a close game against St. Mary’s, and coming off the conference tournament, where the Wildcats won their final two games by a combined 6 points, they felt comfortable in those circumstances.“St. Mary’s is one of the best in grinding out like that in close games,” said guard Phil Booth, who led Villanova with 20 points. “You saw what they did against Gonzaga in their conference tournament. So the Big East really helped us for that.”L.S.U. never trailed against Yale but still had to fend off a spirited second-half surge to win, 79-74. The fourth-seeded Tigers scored the game’s first nine points and led by 18 points in the second half before the No. 13 Bulldogs pared that deficit to as few 3 with less than a minute remaining. Skylar Mays, one of four Tigers to score at least 10 points, went 4 for 4 from the foul line in the final 12 seconds to boost L.S.U., which played a third straight game without its coach, Will Wade, who is suspended after being connected to a recruiting scandal.Uncharacteristically poor shooting doomed Yale. The Bulldogs entered Thursday as one of Division I’s best-shooting teams but made only 37.5 percent of their attempts and, until drilling four in the final minute, only four of their first 30 3-pointers.No. 10 Minnesota recorded the tournament’s first upset by straying from its identity. The Gophers, one of Division I’s worst outside shooting teams, buried seventh-seeded Louisville, 86-76, with a barrage of 3-pointers that left the Cardinals dumbfounded.Expecting the Gophers to feed the ball inside, Louisville struggled to adjust as Minnesota instead drilled one 3-pointer after another, 11 in all. After making his fifth, which put the Gophers up by 59-43 with under 12 minutes left, the freshman Gabe Kalscheur, backpedaling, strummed his fingers as if playing guitar. “He can do whatever he wants if he hits five threes,” Minnesota Coach Richard Pitino said.Minnesota advances to play a familiar opponent, its Big Ten rival Michigan State, which trampled the Gophers by 24 points in February in the teams’ only meeting this season. The second-seeded Spartans needed a late surge to stifle No. 15 Bradley, 76-65.“I’m proud of this team until I get back to the hotel and then it’s going to be dog-eat-dog until Saturday,” Michigan State Coach Tom Izzo said.With Maryland, Michigan and Purdue also winning Thursday, the Big Ten was off to a 5-0 start. Ohio State, Iowa and Wisconsin will try to follow up on that success Friday.Marc Tracy contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Golden State Warriors celebrated their final regular-season game in Oracle Arena with a third-quarter explosion Sunday night, producing a 131-104 win over the Los Angeles Clippers in Oakland, Calif., that clinched top seeding throughout the Western Conference playoffs.The win was Golden State's fifth in a row and 30th of the season at home. The Warriors' first-round opponent, which will be the eighth seed in the West, has yet to be determined. The playoffs begin next Saturday.The Clippers' third straight loss dropped them to 47-34 and closer to a first-round matchup with the Warriors. The Clippers are battling Oklahoma City (47-33) and San Antonio (47-34), both of which won Sunday, for the sixth, seventh and eighth playoff spots in the West.Curry finished with a game-high 27 points for the Warriors, who improved their all-time regular-season record at Oracle Arena to 1,166-770. Like the Warriors, all five Clippers starters scored in double figures, led by Landry Shamet with 17. All but two of Shamet's points came on 5-for-6 3-point shooting.Trail Blazers 115, Nuggets 108Damian Lillard scored 30 points, and Al-Farouq Aminu added a season-high 23 points and 11 rebounds as Portland rallied for a victory over visiting Denver.The Trail Blazers closed the game on a 17-3 run to register their ninth win in the last 11 games. CJ McCollum made his return to the Portland lineup after missing 10 games with a knee injury. McCollum collected nine points, six rebounds and six assists in 25 minutes.Gary Harris scored 18 points to lead Denver, which won the season series with Portland 3-1. The Nuggets played without center Nikola Jokic, forward Paul Millsap and guard Jamal Murray, all given the night off for rest. They need to win their final two games, or get one win and a Rockets loss in their finale at the Thunder, to secure the West's No. 2 seed.Bucks 115, Hawks 107Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 30 points with nine rebounds, and Khris Middleton added 21 as Milwaukee recorded its first 60-victory season since 1980-81 in beating visiting Atlanta.Antetokounmpo, who is now six points away from 2,000 for the second consecutive season, was back on the court for the Eastern Conference champions after missing Saturday's game against the Brooklyn Nets because of a sore left calf.Alex Len scored a career-high 33 points for the Hawks, who were playing without starters John Collins (ankle) and Trae Young (wrist). DeAndre' Bembry added 13 points for Atlanta, which already has been eliminated from playoff contention.Nets 108, Pacers 96D'Angelo Russell scored 20 points, and Brooklyn clinched its first playoff berth since 2015 by leading most of the way in a win over host Indiana.The Nets clinched at least the seventh seed after the Detroit Pistons lost to the Charlotte Hornets earlier Sunday, and could have secured the No. 6 seed if Orlando had lost its game at Boston later on Sunday. Russell shot 7-for-15 and made a 3-pointer for the 60th straight game.The Pacers lost for the ninth time in 12 games and officially are locked into the fifth seed. Even if Indiana and Boston finish tied, the Celtics own the head-to-head tiebreaker. Domantas Sabonis led Indiana with 17 points and Thaddeus Young -- who was a starting forward in 2015 for the Nets -- added 16.Magic 116, Celtics 108Orlando clinched its first postseason berth in seven years with a road win against Boston, ended the Magic's longest playoff drought in franchise historyTerrence Ross scored 14 of his 26 points in the fourth quarter, and Nikola Vucevic had 25 points and 12 rebounds for the Magic, who were perfect (22-for-22) from the free-throw line. The Magic are tied with Brooklyn for the sixth seed in the Eastern Conference with one game left in the regular season.Kyrie Irving led the Celtics with 23 points, and Al Horford added 18.Raptors 117, Heat 109Danny Green scored 21 points -- including seven in overtime -- as Toronto defeated visiting Miami, sweeping the four-game season series.Miami's playoff hopes were severely damaged by the loss. The Heat are now one game behind the Pistons -- and tied with the Hornets -- in the race for the eighth and final playoff spot in the East.Pascal Siakam added 23 points and grabbed 10 rebounds, and Norman Powell also had 23 points off the bench for the Raptors. Dwyane Wade scored 21 points for the Heat, who have lost four in a row.Hornets 104, Pistons 91Kemba Walker scored 31 points, Frank Kaminsky added a season-high 24 and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive in beating host Detroit for its third straight win, clinching a four-game sweep of the season series.The Hornets (38-42) moved into ninth place in the Eastern Conference playoff race and are one game behind the No. 8 Pistons (39-41). Charlotte holds the tiebreaker edge over both the Heat and the Pistons.Walker added eight rebounds and seven assists and the Hornets also got 17 points from Jeremy Lamb. Detroit has now lost four straight and seven of its last nine. Blake Griffin scored 16 but was hobbling much of the day with a knee injury.Rockets 149, Suns 113James Harden flirted with a triple-double, Clint Capela posted added 22 points and 13 rebounds, and Houston closed out its home schedule with a 36-point dismantling of Phoenix.The Rockets turned in their second consecutive blowout win on their home court to keep hold of the third seed in the Western Conference. Houston led 117-77 entering the fourth quarter against the short-handed Suns. The Rockets have won six straight, all by double digits by an average of 25.8 points per game.Harden posted 30 points on 10-for-14 shooting with 13 rebounds and nine assists as the Rockets set an NBA record with 27 3-pointers. The Suns, missing a half dozen regulars, have dropped eight of their last 10 games.Thunder 132, Timberwolves 126Paul George and Russell Westbrook each scored 27 points as Oklahoma City had to come from behind, scoring 37 fourth-quarter points, to win its third consecutive game by beating Minnesota in Minneapolis.Oklahoma City's first three-game winning streak since winning four in a row from Feb. 5-11 has kept the Thunder in contention for the sixth spot in the Western Conference.Westbrook also finished with 10 rebounds and 15 assists for his 136th career triple-double. Westbrook is just two behind Magic Johnson for second all-time in the category. Karl-Anthony Towns finished with 35 points, hitting 13 of 14 from the free-throw line, and Andrew Wiggins had 24 points.Spurs 112, Cavaliers 90LaMarcus Aldridge scored 18 points, including 16 in the first half to a big lead, as visiting San Antonio throttled Cleveland in the teams' penultimate game of the regular season.The Spurs' victory, their third in their past four games, allows them to continue to put pressure on Oklahoma City and the Los Angeles Clippers in the battle for the final three playoff seeds in the West.DeRozan, Davis Bertans and Patty Mills contributed 14 points apiece for the Spurs, while Forbes scored 13. Collin Sexton and Brandon Knight led the anemic Cavaliers' attack with 16 points each, while Ante Zizic added 14.Lakers 113, Jazz 109Kentavious Caldwell-Pope scored 18 of his 32 points in the fourth quarter to help Los Angeles hold off visiting Utah, whose chances of gaining home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs were damaged.The Jazz (49-31), who also saw their seven-game winning streak snapped, trail Portland by two games for fourth place in the West with two games left for each team.JaVale McGee had 22 points and eight rebounds, and Alex Caruso had 18 points and 11 assists for the Lakers. Rudy Gobert had 21 points and 10 rebounds to lead the Jazz. Donovan Mitchell scored 19 points but missed all 10 shots in the second half.Mavericks 129, Grizzlies 127 (OT)Reserve guard Devin Harris buried a tie-breaking 3-pointer with 1:26 to go in overtime, and Trey Burke scored a team-high 24 points to lead visiting Dallas past Memphis.Backup center Salah Mejri slammed home key dunks in the latter part of the fourth quarter, tipped home the tying bucket with 1.5 seconds in regulation and then opened overtime with seven consecutive points. He finished with 19 points off the bench on 7-of-12 shooting to go with nine rebounds.Starting for injured point guard Mike Conley, Delon Wright had a triple-double for the Grizzlies with 20 points, 12 assists and 13 rebounds. Justin Holiday scored a game-high 30 points, drilling six of his 11 3-point attempts.Pelicans 133, Kings 129Elfrid Payton had a double-double and made a 3-pointer that put visiting New Orleans ahead for good in a victory over Sacramento.The injury-plagued Pelicans used just eight players after choosing to rest forward Julius Randle, but all five starters had scored in double figures by the middle of the third quarter. Payton finished with 26 points and 14 assists, while Ian Clark made a career-high seven 3-pointers as he scored a season-high 31 points.Harrison Barnes scored 29 points, De'Aaron Fox had 24 points and 11 assists, and Marvin Bagley III had 19 points and 14 rebounds for the Kings (39-42), who are guaranteed a losing record for the 13th consecutive season.Knicks 113, Wizards 110Mario Hezonja scored 30 points and hit a 3-pointer with 44.8 seconds left that gave New York the lead for good in a win over visiting Washington.In his second start at point guard in place of injured Emmanuel Mudiay, Hezonja made 12 of 21 shots for the Knicks, who had lost 11 of their previous 12 against the Wizards. The Knicks (16-64) must win their final two games to avoid matching the worst record in franchise history, set in 2014-15.Jeff Green had 19 points in 16 minutes for Washington, which has lost three straight. Thomas Bryant added 17 points, and Bobby Portis contributed 11 points and 10 rebounds.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressD’Angelo Russell flashed some postseason magic, playing like the All-Star leader the Nets needed with 26 points, and Caris LeVert scored 23, leading the visiting Nets to a 111-102 victory on Saturday over the Philadelphia 76ers in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.Jimmy Butler scored 36 points and saved the third-seeded Sixers, favored by many to at least reach the East semifinals, from losing by 25. Joel Embiid slogged his way through 24 minutes on a troubled left knee that cost him much of the final month of the regular season and managed 22 points and 15 rebounds. Ben Simmons came up small against Russell, his high school teammate, who scored 19 second-half points.Russell, LeVert and Spencer Dinwiddie gave the Sixers fits off the dribble and buried open looks from 3-point range, and a team that got hot late and just made the playoffs suddenly has the upper hand on the road over a 51-win team stocked with stars.“I think earlier in the season, especially when we were struggling, we’d lose games like that,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said.With Philadelphia behind by 16 late in the fourth quarter, Amir Johnson was caught by television cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone. Johnson, who was inactive for the game, showed Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid the device into a pocket of his warm-up pants.“I just looked down because he said his daughter was extremely sick and he was checking on her,” Embiid said.Johnson issued an apology after the game, and the Sixers fined him an unspecified amount. It was a fitting episode in a game that the Sixers seemed to have phoned in.Russell hit a string of jumpers in the third quarter, never letting the Sixers seriously chip away at the lead. LeVert’s third 3-pointer in the fourth made it a 16-point game, and there was no looking back for one of the biggest wins since the sixth-seeded Nets moved to Brooklyn.Dinwiddie and DeMarre Carroll made consecutive 3-pointers during a 12-0 first-half run. LeVert hit two straight 3s for a 14-point lead, and the Sixers were soundly booed off the court.“We all got to do a better job,” Embiid said. “Us. The fans. We have to bring the fun.”WARRIORS 121, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 38 points and made eight 3-pointers, reaching the highest total in postseason history, and top-seeded Golden State began its quest for a three-peat by winning at home against Los Angeles on a night when tempers flared.Kevin Durant and Patrick Beverley were ejected with 4 minutes 41 seconds to go, 19 seconds after they received double technicals when Durant stripped Beverley and the Clippers guard fell into the scorer’s table.They both became enraged again, and the official Ed Malloy immediately sent them both to the locker room. Durant high-fived fans as he left.Curry was 8 for 12 from beyond the arc, passing Ray Allen (385) for career postseason 3-pointers with 386.MAGIC 104, RAPTORS 101 D. J. Augustin scored 25 points, including the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 3.5 seconds left, and seventh-seeded Orlando won at second-seeded Toronto in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round series.Kawhi Leonard, who led the Raptors with 25 points, got a final shot but missed the rim with his 3-point attempt from the top. The Raptors are now 2-14 in playoff series openers.WALTON TO COACH KINGS One day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers, Luke Walton reached an agreement on a four-year deal to coach the Sacramento Kings, according to a person familiar with the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Lakers’ president this week in part because he did not want to go through with firing Walton, as had been expected around the N.B.A. for weeks. On Friday, Walton and the Lakers mutually agreed to part ways with two seasons left on his contract — with Walton knowing that the Kings, after firing Coach Dave Joerger on Thursday, were eager to hire him.The Lakers have the former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and the Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams at their top of their list to succeed Walton. Lue coached the Lakers’ LeBron James for two and a half seasons in Cleveland.(MARC STEIN)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Tech standout Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, announced Thursday he will forgo his last two seasons in Lubbock and declare for the 2019 NBA Draft.The 6-foot-5, 195-pound guard made the announcement during a press conference in Lubbock, Texas.Culver helped lead the Red Raiders to a share of the Big 12 regular-season title and was effective in this year's NCAA Tournament, where Texas Tech fell to Virginia 85-77 in overtime in the national championship game.On the season, Culver averaged 18.5 points, 6.4 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game while the Red Raiders set a school record with 31 wins.--Also announcing his plans to declare for the draft was 18-year-old Russian Nikita Mikhailovskii, according to a report by ESPN.The 6-foot-8, 180-pound wing is trying to become the first Russian player drafted since 2013 when Sergey Karasev was chosen with the 19th pick by the Cleveland Cavaliers.Mikhailovskii spent the past season playing in the mostly Russian VTB United League and FIBA Europe Cup, averaging 7.8 points in 16.8 minutes while shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range in 45 games.--The Memphis Grizzlies hired two former general managers to their front office, adding Rich Cho as vice president of strategy and Glen Grunwald as senior adviser.Cho is a former GM of the Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers, and Grunwald was GM of the New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors.The Grizzlies demoted former GM Chris Wallace to a scouting role in a flurry of moves last week, including the firing of head coach J.B. Bickerstaff and the promotion of Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations.--Los Angeles Clippers assistant general manager Trent Redden reportedly is close to interviewing for a senior front-office role with the New Orleans Pelicans.The Clippers gave the Pelicans permission to discuss the position with Redden, ESPN reported, citing league sources.David Griffin, the Pelicans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, worked closely with Redden when they with the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 2016 NBA championship season. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski noted that Griffin is expected to be "aggressive" in pursuing Redden.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead seven players in double figures and the Los Angeles Clippers defeated the Utah Jazz 143-137 in overtime on Wednesday night, snapping a three-game skid to close the regular season.Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Patrick Beverley had 14 points in his return from injury.The Clippers' losing streak had already dropped them from the sixth seed to No. 8 in the playoffs, where they'll open against the defending champion Golden State Warriors.Grayson Allen led Utah with a career-high 40 points. The rookie made 13 of 14 free throws and five 3-pointers, but was limited to four points in overtime.The Jazz earned the fifth seed and they'll play No. 4 Houston in the first round.The Clippers dominated overtime, 17-8. Zubac had back-to-back dunks and rookie Jerome Robinson scored six of his seven points.The Jazz outscored the Clippers 29-24 in the fourth after Los Angeles led by nine. Allen had 14 points in the quarter.His free throws put Utah ahead 126-124, but the Jazz fouled Sindarius Thornwell, who made both to tie it up and force overtime.The Clippers shot 71 percent in the first quarter when they led by 17.They blew that lead by the third when the Jazz tied it twice. Harrell scored the Clippers' last two baskets to send them into the fourth leading 102-97.TIP-INSJazz: F-C Derrick Favors (back spasms) missed his fifth straight game. ... C Rudy Gobert (left ankle soreness), G Kyle Korver (right knee soreness), G Donovan Mitchell (thoracic spasm), G Ricky Rubio (left quad contusion) and G Raul Neto (left ankle soreness) sat out. ... They have won eight of 10. ... They lost the second game of their final back-to-back.Clippers: Beverley returned after missing the last three games with a right hip pointer. ... They lost the season series 2-1.UP NEXTJazz: Meet Houston in first round of Western Conference playoffs.Clippers: Meet defending champion Golden State in first round.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanMarc Stein, an N.B.A. reporter for more than 30 years who now covers the league for The New York Times, and Ralph Lawler, longtime broadcaster for the Los Angeles Clippers, were honored on Friday by the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame, which named them as the 2019 Curt Gowdy Media Award recipients for their contributions to basketball.Stein, 49, and Lawler, 80, will be among those honored at the Hall of Fame’s September enshrinement ceremonies in Springfield, Mass.Stein started his career covering the Clippers and then the Lakers for The Los Angeles Daily News, before moving to The Dallas Morning News as a Mavericks beat reporter and eventually a national columnist. From there, he went to ESPN for 15 years, developing a reputation for breaking news and helping the network build its digital coverage of the N.B.A. He joined The Times in 2017.Lawler has announced that he will retire at the end of this season after more than 2,000 broadcasts in his 30 years with the Clippers. He established his reputation as a broadcaster in Philadelphia, working on Phillies, Flyers and 76ers games.The Hall of Fame also announced 13 finalists for induction this year, including four first-time finalists: Marques Johnson, the 1977 national collegiate player of the year; Jack Sikma, a seven-time N.B.A. All-Star; Ben Wallace, a four-time recipient of the Defensive Player of the Year Award; and Paul Westphal, a four-time All-Star and a longtime coach.The other finalists are Leta Andrews, Hugh Evans, Bill Fitch, Bobby Jones, Sidney Moncrief, Barbara Stevens, Eddie Sutton, Teresa Weatherspoon and Chris Webber.The election results will be announced at the men’s Final Four in April.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLarry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed Thursday to part ways."We have great respect and appreciation for Larry and the job that he did as the head coach of the Cavaliers for nearly the entire 2018-19 campaign," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "He brought professionalism, class and steady leadership both this past season and prior four years."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role. Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers. All of us in Cleveland wish Larry nothing but the best going forward."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first, before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.Drew, 61, previously was head coach of the Atlanta Hawks (2010-13) and Milwaukee Bucks (2013-14), and joined the Cavaliers initially as an assistant coach in 2014, then as the associate head coach. While there, the Cavaliers won their first NBA title during the 2015-16 season. He has been an assistant coach in the NBA for 23 seasons.Drew went 8-1 as fill-in coach in the 2017-18 season while Lue was on a medical leave to deal with anxiety issues."I want to thank Dan Gilbert, Koby Altman, the entire organization, and especially our fans, for what has been a very special and rewarding time here in Cleveland. Koby and I had a good discussion following the season and have both decided that the best decision for each of us was that I would not return to coach the team," said Drew, who was an NBA point guard from 1980-91, playing for the Detroit Pistons, Kansas City/Sacramento Kings, Los Angeles Clippers and Lakers."I am very proud of what we accomplished over the last several years together and will always cherish our Championship. I also want to commend our players this season for the bond that they established, the way they approached their jobs and the hard work and growth they had every day. I am very proud of them and wish them the best as they continue to develop for the future."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressORLANDO, Fla. — The stars have been stars in these playoffs.Kyrie Irving has Boston on the cusp of sweeping away Indiana Pacers. Kevin Durant, Stephen Curry and Golden State are coming off a game against the Los Angeles Clippers where the Warriors looked very much like the NBA champions again. Damian Lillard and Russell Westbrook are going at each other big-time in the Portland-Oklahoma City series.And then there's Pascal Siakam.Toronto's surprise story is no surprise anymore.Siakam has been perhaps the biggest breakout player in these playoffs, adding to his breakout season for the Raptors — who lead the Orlando Magic 2-1 in their first-round matchup thanks largely to the 25-year-old from Cameroon and his 24.3 points and 10 rebounds per game in the series.It's easy to forget that Siakam only started playing organized basketball seven years ago."Seriously?" Raptors guard Danny Green asked, unaware of his teammate's unique background.Seriously.Raptors coach Nick Nurse was amused by a recent question suggesting the Siakam was the team's third option offensively behind Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry. Nurse said the way Toronto sees it, Siakam — "Spicy P" is what they call him in Toronto, and the team sent out bottles of hot sauce with his face on the box to NBA awards voters as part of his Most Improved Player campaign — has really been the second option all season.At times in these playoffs, he's been the first option. In other words, a star is being born."Hey, look, he was terrific," Magic coach Steve Clifford said after Siakam's 30-point, 11-rebound effort in Game 3.There's four games on tap Sunday: Boston has a 3-0 lead and can become the first team to advance to the second round if it wins at Indiana. All three other series on the schedule — Golden State at the Los Angeles Clippers, Toronto at Orlando and Portland at Oklahoma City — have the road teams leading 2-1 and in position to all go home for potential closeout wins if they get victories on Sunday.Here's a look at Sunday's games:CELTICS AT PACERSCeltics lead 3-0. Game 4, 1 p.m. EDT, ABCNEED TO KNOW: Boston is seeking its first series sweep since 2011, when it rolled past the Knicks. The Celtics' other 4-0 sweeps came in 1959, 1980, 1981 and 1986. The Pacers are trying to avoid a fourth straight first-round exit and their second 4-0 loss in three years.KEEP AN EYE ON: Pacers starting forwards Bojan Bogdanovic and Thaddeus Young will be free agents this summer. Might this be their finales in Indiana?INJURY WATCH: Pacers star Victor Oladipo, out since January with a right knee injury, is expected to be at Game 4. He was going to fly in for Game 3, but was delayed by weather.PRESSURE IS ON: Boston. There's no pressure on Indiana; no one has come from 3-0 down to win a series, so the Pacers won't be expected to change that. Boston is playing for more rest before facing the Milwaukee-Detroit winner.WARRIORS AT CLIPPERSWarriors lead 2-1. Game 4, 3:30 p.m. EDT, ABCNEED TO KNOW: Golden State sent a very clear message in Game 3, blowing out Los Angeles by 27 with only one starter logging more than 30 minutes. And the Clippers have allowed a staggering 129.7 points in their last six games (going 2-4).KEEP AN EYE ON: The Clippers' first unit. Lou Williams and Montrezl Harrell are great off the bench and play starters' minutes, so this is somewhat misleading, but Doc Rivers can't have just one starter in double figures — as was the case in Game 2.INJURY WATCH: Andrew Bogut had eight points, 14 rebounds and five assists in his first game as DeMarcus Cousins' replacement for the Warriors.PRESSURE IS ON: Patrick Beverley. The Clippers' point guard is unquestionably tough, but four fouls and five shots in 18 minutes — like he had in Game 3 on Thursday — won't cut it again.RAPTORS AT MAGICRaptors lead 2-1. Game 4, 7 p.m. EDT, TNTNEED TO KNOW: Entering Saturday, three players in these playoffs — Stephen Curry, James Harden and Pascal Siakam — had a 30-point double-double. Curry and Harden made a combined $68 million this season. Siakam made about $1.5 million.KEEP AN EYE ON: Orlando guard Evan Fournier is 12 for 42 in this series and was 1 for 12 in Game 3. Among players with at least 10 shot attempts, there's been only five instances in Magic history where someone shot worse in a home game.INJURY WATCH: Bad news for Orlando: Toronto's Kawhi Leonard was ailing for Game 3 with an illness, which may explain some of his 6-for-19 shooting effort. He's expected to feel better Sunday.PRESSURE IS ON: Orlando's starters. Toronto opened on an 11-0 run (and 16-2) in Game 2 and a 10-0 run in Game 3. Another occurrence of that in Game 4 would be trouble.TRAIL BLAZERS AT THUNDERTrail Blazers lead 2-1. Game 4, 9:30 p.m. EDT, TNTNEED TO KNOW: Oklahoma City clearly got its swagger back in Game 3. And Portland needs to buck this history: The Trail Blazers are 0-7 in their last seven playoff games immediately following a loss.KEEP AN EYE ON: The Damian Lillard-Russell Westbrook matchup is the premier head-to-head tussle so far in these playoffs. Lillard's 25-point third quarter in Game 3 was phenomenal, but the Thunder held him to seven points in the other three quarters.INJURY WATCH: Thunder forward Paul George struggled with his shot again in Game 3 — a season-worst 3 for 16, raising questions about his troublesome right shoulder. But he got to the line 17 times, making 14, so he's clearly not shying from contact.PRESSURE IS ON: Portland's defense. Trail Blazer fouls sent the Thunder on the foul line 39 times in Game 3.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe NBA rescinded technical fouls assessed to Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant and Los Angeles Clippers forward JaMychal Green on Friday after reviewing a call made during Thursday night's game.Durant and Green were exchanging words during the third quarter when the double-technical was called, stunning both players.The decision to rescind was announced from the league's @NBAOfficial account on Twitter.The change was good for Durant, as he already received two technicals earlier in the series. An accumulation of seven technicals during the postseason carries an automatic one-game suspension. He had lobbied for the technicals to be rescinded after Thursday's 132-105 victory.--Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, who missed Game 3 of his team's first-round playoff series against the Brooklyn Nets on Thursday night because of left knee soreness, is listed as doubtful for Game 4 on Saturday. The NBA announced his status in its injury report.Embiid's status has digressed from the first three games when he was listed as questionable. He continues to deal with left knee tendinitis, a problem throughout the regular season, when he missed 14 of the Sixers' 24 games after the All-Star break.Despite Embiid's absence in Game 3, the visiting 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory over the host Nets to take a 2-1 lead. Greg Monroe started in Embiid's place and collected nine points on 4-for-13 shooting and grabbed 13 rebounds. Game 4 of the best-of-seven will also be played in Brooklyn before the series shifts to Philadelphia on Tuesday.--The status of Detroit Pistons forward Blake Griffin remains uncertain entering Saturday's Game 3 of the team's Eastern Conference first-round series against the Milwaukee Bucks.Griffin missed the first two games with a left knee injury, and coach Dwane Casey didn't shed any light on whether the six-time All-Star will return on Saturday for the eighth-seeded Pistons, who lost the first two games of the series in Milwaukee by an average of 28 points."Day-to-day. I'm not talking about Blake," Casey told reporters after Friday's practice. "Day-to-day. Same old words. Just like I am on coaching -- day-to-day."--Former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue was scheduled to interview with the Los Angeles Lakers for their head coaching vacancy, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.The Lakers fired coach Luke Walton last week after three seasons and a 98-148 record.Lue, who previously served as an assistant coach for the Boston Celtics, L.A. Clippers and Cavaliers, became head coach in Cleveland during the 2015-16 season after David Blatt was fired.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaThe Golden State Warriors did more than just fall victim to the biggest comeback in N.B.A. playoff history on Monday night. They also lost DeMarcus Cousins, their starting center, for the foreseeable future — and most likely for the rest of the postseason. A test on Tuesday revealed that he had torn a left quadriceps muscle in the first quarter of the Warriors’ 135-131 loss to the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 2 of their first-round playoff series.Cousins, who had returned this season after tearing his left Achilles’ tendon in January 2018, underwent a magnetic resonance imaging examination that showed the tear, the Warriors announced. The team said Cousins would be out “indefinitely” and begin a course of rehabilitation.Cousins, 28, sustained the injury when he tumbled to the court going for a loose ball early in Monday’s game. He immediately grabbed his left thigh, then limped to the locker room and did not return.It was another devastating blow for Cousins, a four-time N.B.A. All-Star whose career has unraveled because of injuries. Last season, he was in line for a huge new contract when he tore his Achilles’ tendon while playing for the New Orleans Pelicans. He agreed to a modest one-year deal with the Warriors worth $5.3 million.After spending the first half of the season rehabbing, Cousins returned to the court in January and gave the Warriors more depth in their pursuit of a third straight championship. He had been playing well, too, averaging 16.3 points and 8.2 rebounds a game in 30 regular-season appearances.After Cousins departed, the Warriors managed to build a 31-point lead against the Clippers — but then blew it, succumbing to Lou Williams (36 points, 11 assists) and Montrezl Harrell (25 points, 10 rebounds), who helped Los Angeles even the best-of-seven series at a game apiece.RAPTORS 111, MAGIC 82 Kawhi Leonard scored 37 points, Kyle Lowry bounced back from a scoreless playoff opener with 22 and host Toronto routed Orlando on Tuesday night, evening their Eastern Conference first-round series at one win apiece.Pascal Siakam had 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who never trailed and led by as many as 34. Despite playing in foul trouble for much of the night, Leonard finished with a career playoff-high 15 field goals. (AP)NUGGETS 114, SPURS 105 Jamal Murray scored 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter, and host Denver rallied from 19 down to beat San Antonio and tie their Western Conference first-round playoff series at one game apiece.Nikola Jokic had 21 points, 13 rebounds and 8 assists, Gary Harris scored 23 points and Paul Millsap had 20 for Denver. DeMar DeRozan scored a playoff career-high 31 points and LaMarcus Aldridge had 24 points for the Spurs.The Nuggets struggled to make shots deep into the third quarter but found their rhythm in the fourth quarter by hitting nine of their first 11 field goals in the final period to storm into the lead. (FIELD LEVEL MEDIA)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOAKLAND, Calif. — Starting Warriors center DeMarcus Cousins' postseason could be in jeopardy after he injured his left quadriceps muscle in the first quarter of Monday night's 135-131 Game 2 loss to the Los Angeles Clippers in the first round of the playoffs."There's a pretty significant quad injury," coach Steve Kerr said. "We'll get an MRI tomorrow. But he's going to be out for, I'll just say a while because I think it's not clear right now how long he'll be out. It's significant."This is a terrible blow for Cousins in just his second career playoff game following a nine-year wait. The big man returned in January from a nearly year-long absence following surgery for a torn left Achilles tendon.He hobbled to the locker room at the 8:09 mark of the first quarter. At the 8 1/2-minute mark Cousins stole the ball from Patrick Beverley in the back court and tried to retrieve the loose ball when went down in front of the Golden State bench and grabbed at his left quad."We'll rally behind him, tell him it's far from the end of the world, tell him he has so much great basketball ahead of him," Klay Thompson said. "He believes that. ... He'll bounce back. I know he will. He's a fighter."Cousins had two points, two rebounds and an assist in just less than 4 minutes. He fouled out of Saturday's 121-104 Game 1 win with nine points, nine rebounds and four assists in 21 minutes.Last summer, Cousins came to the Warriors seeking a chance, even though he was working back from the season-ending surgery after injuring the Achilles while with New Orleans. Cousins joined the two-time defending champions for $5.3 million, a low-risk move for Golden State general manager Bob Myers that worked out well for everyone."We'll miss his low-post dominance, of course. We'll miss his screen-setting, his energy out there," Thompson said. "I'm hoping for a speedy recovery because we really need him if we want to make this run."Kevon Looney filled in and scored a career-high 19 points making all six of his shots. Looney will be called upon to fill the void along with recently signed center Andrew Bogut, who rejoined the Warriors for another run and to provide depth down low for this exact scenario.The Warriors locker room was more subdued than usual."It's tough for sure, you feel for him considering all he's been in this last year," Stephen Curry said of Cousins. "This is a big stage, the playoffs. He's been looking forward to this. I don't know the extent of the injury at this point but hope he gets back sooner than later. But just man to man in terms of him and what he's been through, it's tough. There's no sugarcoating it. You hate seeing that opportunity on this big stage taken away from him like that."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — When Kevin Durant rained down shots on the Los Angeles Clippers with his deadly playoff performance on Thursday, he also provided a glimpse of what life will be like for Golden State and their competition without the injured DeMarcus Cousins.In short, less Cousins will equal more Durant -- more Durant post-ups, more Durant pull-ups and more Durant brilliance.The Clippers learned the hard way as Durant hung 38 points on them in a 132-105 rout that gave the Warriors a 2-1 best-of-seven first-round series lead.      “DeMarcus started playing for us late in the season and we definitely wanted to establish him in the post a lot to start games,” Durant told Reuters, following his dominant night. “Without him in the lineup, coach just used me in his spots.”When Cousins suffered a quad injury on Monday that sidelined him indefinitely, it was viewed as a potential roadblock to the team’s quest for a third straight title.Instead, the absence may have unlocked a version of Durant that has led to the past two championships and back-to-back Finals MVPs. Golden State fed their lanky sharpshooter early on Thursday, and Durant repaid them by making his first six attempts on an array of moves.For the game, he finished 14-for-23 from the field and added seven assists. “We said before the game they were going to post (Durant) more,” Clippers coach Doc Rivers told reporters. “Instead of having him at the elbows, they’re going to bring him to the right box and he’s going to score from there most likely.“They did that, and he made shots.”      EXTRA INCENTIVEDurant had extra incentive to be aggressive in Game Three after his manufactured feud with Clippers guard Patrick Beverley had dominated headlines.Durant and Beverley were each ejected for jawing at each other in Golden State’s Game One win. The Warriors All Star attempted just eight shots in Game Two where Beverley guarded him closely and the Clippers overcame a 31-point deficit to prevail.All the superfluous talk surrounding Durant, about Beverley, his pending free agency or his technical foul total, seemed to obscure his most defining gift -- scoring.“He’s a top-three player in this league,” Clippers guard Lou Williams said. “He plays at a high level, we expected that. He’s capable of making shots.”Durant had been making, and taking, less of them recently, though. His shot attempt average has fallen each month since February, and his latest 38-point game was his highest total in more than two months.The two-time NBA scoring champion bristled at the idea that he was ever passive.“I don’t run the show on any team I’ve ever been a part of, I’m just a player - one of the guys,” Durant said. “So, whatever the coach asks me to do I have to be prepared for it. I don’t pass up shots, I just play within the offense”Golden State’s new playoff offense is set to look a lot like its old one – with Durant at the forefront. His team mates are prepared to feed off of his potency.“He came out super aggressive and in kill mode (Thursday). That was all the difference for us,” Golden State forward Draymond Green said.“How many people can stop Kevin if Kevin don’t want to be stopped?”The Warriors and their opponents are about to find out. (Editing by Ed Osmond)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherSo much for easing back in.In his first game since Christmas to let a groin injury heal, LeBron James played 40 minutes and came an assist short of a triple-double as the Los Angeles Lakers beat the Los Angeles Clippers, 123-120, in overtime on Thursday night.James had missed 17 games, the longest absence of his N.B.A. career, after injuring his groin in the holiday game against the Golden State Warriors. Initially expected to sit out only a few games, James was forced to miss five weeks when the injury lingered.The Lakers were 20-14 at the time of his injury, and even won the Christmas game after he left in the third quarter, but they were 6-11 without him and now stand in the ninth spot in the Western Conference, just out of the playoff picture.The overtime win on Thursday was doubly meaningful because it came against the Clippers, who occupy the eighth spot, currently one game ahead of their in-city rivals.The Lakers were cagey about James’s status for the game, listing him as “doubtful” and not announcing his participation until an hour and a half before game time despite widespread suspicion he would play.There was nothing doubtful about his performance. James finished with 24 points along with 14 rebounds and 9 assists, all game highs.“Being out five weeks, I’m feeling it right now,” James told reporters. “I wish I could click my shoes together right now and be home in my bed.”Lakers Coach Luke Walton told The Los Angeles Times: “Wasn’t looking to play LeBron 40 minutes tonight, but that’s just kind of the way the game played out.”While James’s return performance reinforces the narrative that he is a timeless superstar, making the N.B.A. finals year after year, the injury is a reminder that he is 34, and the window for greatness in Los Angeles will not be open forever.With that in mind, Los Angeles is very interested in acquiring a superstar to complement James, specifically Anthony Davis of the Pelicans, who is interested in moving on. Davis was fined $50,000 this week after his agent, Rich Paul, spoke too freely about trades. Paul was at the Lakers game on Thursday night.Davis has been dealing with an injury of his own, to his finger, which has caused him to miss the last six games.The N.B.A. trade deadline is Thursday.An earlier version of this article misidentified the person who was fined for an N.B.A. agent’s public comments about trades. The player, Anthony Davis, was fined for the remarks, not his agent, Rich Paul.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSpeaking to local media around midday Thursday, Memphis Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said he hadn't talked with team owner Robert Pera yet, but he could make one declaration: Head coach J.B. Bickerstaff would return for a second season. Two hours later, that decision had changed, and several other moves were made.The Grizzlies fired Bickerstaff and demoted Wallace to a scouting role.Memphis also named Jason Wexler as team president with "oversight of both business and basketball operations," the team said in a statement. The Grizzlies promoted Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations, with former VP John Hollinger reassigned to a senior advisory position."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a reenergized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."--Sacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said.Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs. The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final postseason spot in the West.--Larry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed to part ways."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.--Cardiologists have cleared Chicago Bulls forward Lauri Markkanen to resume full basketball activities, the team announced.Markkanen, 21, experienced extreme fatigue and an accelerated heart rate during a game in Toronto on March 26. A battery of tests conducted at Chicago's Rush University Medical Center and Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore determined that dehydration and nutrient deficiency caused his symptoms.The 7-footer missed the rest of the regular season, finishing his second campaign with averages of 18.7 points and 9.0 rebounds in 52 games.--The Phoenix Suns officially named James Jones as general manager, giving him control over all basketball operations for the team.The Suns also added Jeff Bower as senior vice president of basketball operations and retained Trevor Bukstein as assistant general manager. Both will report to Jones, the team announced in a statement.Jones, 38, who played 14 seasons in the league and won three NBA championships, had served as Phoenix's VP of basketball operations the past two seasons. He shared GM duties this past season with Bukstein.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAt the end of a dizzying frenzy of trades in the N.B.A., featuring 24 deals in one week, Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans stayed put — for now.Yet there was plenty of action to make up for the lack of a Davis trade, with two of the four title hopefuls in the Eastern Conference making significant acquisitions before Thursday afternoon’s trade deadline, intensifying the race at the top of the East after Philadelphia’s big trade earlier this week.In the most significant deadline-day deals, Toronto acquired the former All-Star center Marc Gasol from Memphis, while Milwaukee imported the sharpshooting forward Nikola Mirotic from New Orleans as part of a three-team deal that also involved Detroit.Those moves capped a wild seven-day stretch that began with the Knicks’ blockbuster trade of Kristaps Porzingis to Dallas and also included the 76ers’ acquisition of Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers. Philadelphia’s big swing to land Harris, who joined a starting lineup that already featured Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Jimmy Butler and JJ Redick, seemingly forced the Raptors and Bucks, who entered Thursday as the East’s second- and first-place teams, to make their own moves.Milwaukee, Toronto and Philadelphia, along with the Boston Celtics, are jockeying to become the first LeBron James-less team to represent the East in the N.B.A. Finals since 2010.The Sixers, at fifth in the conference standings, didn’t stop at their Harris trade, though. Shortly before the deadline, they made a surprising deal with the Orlando Magic to send the wayward guard Markelle Fultz — whom they selected with the No. 1 overall pick in the 2017 draft — for the small forward Jonathon Simmons and two future draft picks (one in the first round, one in the second).The Celtics, who entered Thursday in third, came away from trade season simply relieved that Davis had not been traded to the Los Angeles Lakers. After a nervy two weeks, during which the Celtics could merely watch because of an obscure league rule, they will now get an opportunity to make a run at Davis in the off-season — although Davis is said to remain adamantly against signing a long-term contract with the Celtics should they trade for him.The Celtics were ineligible to make in-season trade offers for Davis with Kyrie Irving still on their roster, since both Davis and Irving are currently playing under maximum rookie-scale contract extensions; league rules allow teams to field only one such player.The Lakers, however, were unable to persuade the Pelicans to surrender Davis during the exclusive negotiating window they had to pursue him in the wake of Davis’s Jan. 28 request to be traded. The front offices of Los Angeles and New Orleans had no discussions about Davis on deadline day, according to two people familiar with the talks, after negotiations broke down Tuesday over what the Lakers deemed to be exorbitant demands from New Orleans.Late Thursday, Pelicans General Manager Dell Demps confirmed that Davis would continue playing for the team rather than be held out to guard against serious injury in advance of the trade sweepstakes that will likely emerge closer to the draft. Davis had not played since Jan. 18 because of a finger injury followed by the team not wanting to risk an injury. Demps confirmed he would be back on the court soon.“Ultimately, Anthony made it clear to us he wants to play and he gives our team the best opportunity to win games,” Demps said in a statement.The Lakers on Thursday were left trying to recover from the instability wrought by their pursuit of Davis as they seek to make the playoffs in James’s first season in Los Angeles. They entered Thursday’s play at 27-27, good for just 10th place in the West, after falling to a humiliating 42-point defeat in Indiana on Tuesday night. The one-sided loss, against the Victor Oladipo-less Pacers, left little doubt that the mounting trade speculation surrounding the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma was taking a toll on the Lakers.When the Lakers couldn’t acquire Davis on Thursday, they did trade the Croatian center Ivica Zubac — who was among the promising young players mentioned as potential parts of a trade for Davis — along with Michael Beasley to the Los Angeles Clippers in a deal for forward Mike Muscala. The move opened a roster spot for the Lakers that will allow them to seriously consider signing the former All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony, but Los Angeles will have plenty of other options on the free-agent market as various veterans become available following the deadline.As the Davis talk cooled on Thursday, much of the focus leading into the deadline centered on the Grizzlies, who wound up trading Gasol but keeping their point guard Mike Conley, who had drawn serious trade interest from the Utah Jazz and Detroit Pistons.Conley, 31, has two seasons, with a combined salary of $66 million, left on his contract after this one, which convinced the Grizzlies that trading him closer to the draft in June might yield a better offer. Gasol, though, can become a free agent at season’s end, so Memphis had to trade him now or risk losing one of the game’s best two-way players without compensation this summer.Charlotte and Memphis engaged in serious trade talks regarding Gasol earlier this week, which prompted the Spaniard, who has only played for the Grizzlies — and who played his high school ball in Memphis after the Grizzlies imported his brother Pau Gasol from Spain — to clean out his locker.But Toronto, perhaps motivated by what the Sixers did and by the Bucks’ move for Mirotic, packaged Jonas Valanciunas, Delon Wright, C.J. Miles and a second-round draft pick in 2024 to add Gasol to a team straining to convince the All-Star forward Kawhi Leonard to make a long-term commitment when he becomes a free agent July 1.The Bucks, like Toronto, managed to upgrade their roster without surrendering a first-round pick. By expanding a Thon Maker-for-Stanley Johnson trade it had hashed out earlier this week into a three-team deal, Milwaukee landed Mirotic for the primary cost of four second-round draft picks, which were sent to the Pelicans, who also came away with Johnson and the veteran Jason Smith.The Knicks did not make another deal, one week removed from the Porzingis blockbuster that got the trade madness started, but they did set two veterans free to find deals on the postseason market. The outspoken forward Enes Kanter was waived, as was the newly acquired Wes Matthews — with Matthews immediately coming to terms with Indiana to join the Pacers after he clears waivers.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressAUBURN HILLS, Mich. — Blake Griffin's tone was serious, befitting a man who has had one of the best seasons of his career — but now faces the same old questions about his health.Griffin's status for Detroit's first-round series against Milwaukee isn't clear at the moment, but after he sat out the Pistons' crucial regular-season finale at New York on Wednesday night, it's clear his left knee problems are a significant issue heading into the playoffs. Detroit plays Game 1 at top-seeded Milwaukee on Sunday night."We're taking this day by day," Griffin said Saturday. "I'm not looking forward to a day that's not here right now in front of me. I'll sit with our training staff, and whoever else needs to be in on that decision, and make that each day."It's a tough situation for any athlete to go through — leading your team through the regular season, only to have your playoff participation threatened by an injury. This is the time of year when players and teams want to be at full strength, and that's something Griffin, Joel Embiid, Paul George and several others are struggling.Griffin's injury history was well known when the Pistons acquired him from the Los Angeles Clippers in the middle of last season. He's been terrific for Detroit, averaging a career-high 24.5 points this season. He played 75 games, his most since 2013-14.But now, the Pistons may need to face the powerful Bucks without him — or at least with a diminished version"It's a huge blow, but we all got to step up. Defensively, offensively, rebounding," guard Ish Smith said. "You've just got to play. You can't overthink it. Obviously, it's a void, but once that ball tips, you have to play."Detroit did catch a bit of a break with the schedule. The Pistons-Bucks series is one of the last to start Sunday, and then the teams will have two days off before Games 2 and 3."It gives us a couple of extra days of resting nicks and bumps and bruises," Detroit coach Dwane Casey said.Here's a look at some other injury concerns as the playoffs begin:LONG TERMSome teams had to come to terms a while ago with injuries to their stars. Indiana's Victor Oladipo went down with a season-ending right knee injury in January, and Portland lost center Jusuf Nurkic to a broken left leg last month.UNCERTAIN STARS?Like Griffin with the Pistons, Embiid and George are crucial to the hopes of the 76ers and Thunder. Embiid was in the starting lineup for Philadelphia in Game 1 against Brooklyn on Saturday, but tendinitis in his left knee cost him most of the final month of the regular season.George could miss Oklahoma City's opener at Portland on Sunday with right shoulder soreness.RECENT PROBLEMSBoston's Marcus Smart is expected to miss 4 to 6 weeks after being diagnosed with a partial tear to his left oblique abdominal muscle. He was injured against Orlando on April 7.Smart played in a team-high 80 games during the regular season.Toronto forward OG Anunoby had an emergency appendectomy two days before the start of the playoffs. He's expected to miss at least the first round.Utah's Ricky Rubio bruised his left quad in a game against Sacramento earlier this month.MILWAUKEE CONCERNSThe Bucks probably won't have much sympathy for the Pistons if Griffin can't play. Milwaukee has its own problems.Guard Malcolm Brogdon went down with a right foot injury last month. Nikola Mirotic broke his left thumb March 19, although he could return for Game 1. Tony Snell (sprained ankle) is not likely to be available before the middle of the series.___Follow Noah Trister at www.Twitter.com/noahtrister___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — Dwyane Wade scored 30 points in the tribute-filled final home game of his career, and the Miami Heat defeated the Philadelphia 76ers 122-99 on Tuesday night.Bam Adebayo scored 19, Justise Winslow scored 16 and Hassan Whiteside added 15 for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention when Detroit beat Memphis — a result that went final during the third quarter of the Miami-Philly game.Wade's career will end Wednesday in Brooklyn, when Miami plays its regular-season finale. He checked out for the last time with 1:02 left, embracing teammates and his son Zaire — who was on the Heat bench.Greg Monroe scored 18 points and Ben Simmons scored 16 for Philadelphia, which entered Tuesday already locked into the No. 3 seed for the Eastern Conference playoffs and rested Joel Embiid and J.J. Redick. Simmons played only 21 minutes, Tobias Harris shot 3 for 16 in 20 minutes and Jimmy Butler scored only four points in 16 minutes.Butler did get one prize — he was the recipient of Wade's final postgame jersey exchange with an opponent.Jonathon Simmons scored 14 for the 76ers.Wade scored the first basket of the game on a dunk, Philadelphia scored the next eight — and it was all Miami the rest of the way. Winslow had three 3-pointers and Wade scored six points in a 22-2 Heat run that put Miami in control early, and the outcome was never in question again.The final minutes were all Wade. He swished a 3-pointer. He banked in a pair of them. He got slapped on his backside by a fan — in this case, it was permitted, since the fan was his wife Gabrielle Union-Wade. He scored 14 of his points in that final quarter.It was his night, and only his night.The game was the sideshow.The reason every seat was filled was Wade.There was a pregame ceremony, capping a day of tributes. Former President Barack Obama sent a video that was played during the first quarter. Wade's oldest sons and his nephew appeared in taped messages as well. John Legend and Chrissy Teigen were courtside, as was Heat legend Chris Bosh and his wife Adrienne.The ovations were constant, as were the "M-V-P" chants. And one of the loudest roars came with 11:05 left, when Wade and Udonis Haslem — the only two players to play for all three Heat championship teams, and the longest-tenured Heat players ever — checked in together.TIP-INS76ers: This is the first time Philadelphia has posted consecutive seasons of 50 or more wins since 1984-85 and 1985-86. ... Philadelphia missed 17 of its first 18 tries from 3-point range.Heat: It took Haslem less than a minute to do one of the things he does best — take a charge. ... Wade played in 575 games in a Heat uniform at home. Miami won 401 of them, and he scored 13,323 points in those contests.McGRUDER DECISIONMiami will not be a tax team this year, saving about a $5 million payment because Rodney McGruder was claimed Tuesday by the Los Angeles Clippers — two days after he was waived by the Heat. If Miami had won at Toronto on Sunday, McGruder would likely still be with the Heat. "That was one of the tougher franchise moves our organization has had to make," said coach Erik Spoelstra, who raves about McGruder.REST DAYThe 76ers plan to sit Embiid and Redick again Wednesday, and will also give Ben Simmons and Harris the night off. "Some people like to have a rhythm going into it, some people like to have time off. I don't think you can appoint the perfect formula," 76ers coach Brett Brown said.UP NEXT76ers: Host Chicago on Wednesday.Heat: Visit Brooklyn on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCLEVELAND — LaMarcus Aldridge had 18 points and 13 rebounds as the San Antonio Spurs, who are in a three-team scramble to determine playoff seeding in the Western Conference, extended Cleveland's losing streak to nine games by beating the Cavaliers 112-90 on Sunday.The Spurs recently clinched a postseason spot for a NBA record-tying 22nd year in a row, but they don't yet know who they'll play in the first round. San Antonio came into the day in eighth place, which would mean an early matchup with defending champion Golden State.However, the Spurs can still move ahead of Oklahoma City and the Los Angeles Clippers as they own tiebreakers with both teams.DeMar DeRozan and Patty Mills added 14 points apiece for the balanced Spurs, who turned back every Cleveland challenge in the second half. Mills made three 3-pointers in a two-minute span early in the fourth quarter to end any chances of the Cavs rallying.Rookie Collin Sexton and Brandon Knight scored 16 each for Cleveland, and the Cavs celebrated the upcoming retirement of forward Channing Frye throughout the game.Kevin Love returned after missing four games and played 13 minutes in the first half — a salute to Frye, his close friend.San Antonio didn't pull away from Cleveland until midway through the second quarter and the Spurs used a 9-0 run over the final 2:05 to open a 62-46 halftime lead.With the popular Frye retiring after Tuesday's game and 13 seasons, Cavs coach Larry Drew started the 35-year-old for the first time since Jan. 9.Love wanted to play alongside Frye one last time and subbed in during the first quarter wearing his friend's No. 45 college jersey from the University of Arizona over his Cavaliers' jersey. The gesture couldn't have been easy for Love, who played at rival UCLA.When Frye hit a 3-pointer for Cleveland's first points, the Cavs bench erupted and the reserves, who all wore shooting shirts with "Channing" on the back, celebrated with high-fives.Frye, a key member of the Cavs' 2016 title team, played the first seven minutes and pretended to collapse on the bench when he finally came out.When he was pulled with 1:34 left in the game, Frye received a loud ovation before being tackled to the floor by teammates.TIP-INSSpurs: San Antonio's playoff streak is the longest active one in the league. Golden State and Houston are tied for second with seven. ... G Marco Belinelli (left hip soreness) sat out the first half. He didn't score in 10 minutes. ... Coach Gregg Popovich had kind words for Frye. "He's one of those stretch-4-kind-of guys we always talk about that really had an impact," Popovich said. "Most of my memories of him were in Phoenix, where he was really a big problem for us. He did such a great job and really cemented that, it's going to be part of the NBA forever — shooting big guys — and he was great at it. He's been a great teammate."Cavaliers: Sexton came in averaging 23.9 points over his past 15 games. ... G Matthew Dellavedova missed his 16th straight game with a concussion. ... Coach Larry Drew said he has not discussed his future with the club. Drew took over when Tyronn Lue was fired in October after a 0-6 start. Drew received a pay raise and new contract from the Cavs, which includes a team option for next season.UP NEXTSpurs: Host Dallas in regular-season finale on Wednesday.Cavaliers: Conclude season Tuesday at home against Charlotte.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOAKLAND, Calif. — Stephen Curry's pregame tunnel heaves have become such a spectacle at Oracle Arena that hundreds of cameras rise in the air to capture the moment.He won't have that anymore when the Warriors move across the bay to San Francisco to Chase Center next season.Everybody figures Curry will come up with a snazzy move to replace it."Shoot, I don't know, probably like a backflip or something like that," quipped Splash Brother Klay Thompson.A new signature shot? For sure.Curry vows to do something new and fun, but will just let it come to him when the time arrives. He's not pre-planning, and especially not now with the playoffs his top priority. The Warriors opened their first-round series with a 121-104 blowout of the Los Angeles Clippers."I've got to let it happen organically, just like this happened," Curry said. "I've got to let it happen organically. I don't really know. It'll come to me, though."Curry typically takes five tries total, fewer when he makes one, from just off the court by the end of the bench at the start of the tunnel before he sprints down the hallway back to the locker room. He takes a pass from security guard Curtis Jones and lets it fly for cheering fans who clamor in Oracle Arena's lower bowl, desperate for a glimpse of the two-time MVP getting ready for another game.Jones recalls a stretch when Curry made five straight tunnel shots, meaning he knocked it down on the first attempt in five consecutive home games — "which is almost unheard of," Jones said."The word I always use is priceless. It's been priceless," said Jones, 67, who has worked security at Warriors games for nearly 2 ½ decades.Before the final regular-season game at Oracle on April 7, Curry took his shots and then embraced Jones before sprinting back to the locker room.The shot will no longer work because of the configuration of the new arena. The tunnel at Oracle is on a line with the rim but will be at an angle behind the basket at Chase Center. Jones plans to work in the new venue and hopes to be part of Curry's to-be-determined signature move."Before the tunnel shot, people didn't come in near as fast," Jones recalled. "They come in early and have something to look forward to, so it made a big difference in the Oracle crowd. It made a major difference around here." Fans weren't the only ones watching what became the NBA's most must-see warmup."I love all his routines, pregame rituals. I know all of them. I watch all of them. We all watch them," Warriors teammate Quinn Cook said. "I know he'll come up with something to replace that — I mean, nothing will replace that. He has to have a new ending shot after his pregame shooting."Draymond Green knew a change was coming after recently taking a tour of Chase Center with Warriors COO Rick Welts."Rick Welts was telling me, 'We had one mistake in making this arena.' I'm like 'What was the mistake?' 'Well, with the way it's set up, Steph's tunnel shot, the angles, it won't work anymore,'" Green said. "It's like, 'Well, Steph better figure out another shot.' And he will. I'm not sure what it will be yet but he'll figure something out."Just don't count on the typically outspoken Green to help. "Nope. You can't give Steph ideas," Green said. "He'll just figure it out."But whatever it is, it will be hard to top the tradition at Oracle."He has a lot of them here," said his father, Dell Curry. "You've got to make new ones I guess. It's been fun."Curry has been known to mimic moves from a range of sports like curling, volleyball and soccer. Coach Steve Kerr will be eager to see what Curry pulls out of his hat."It's great for the fans. It's great for me to get a nice routine down," Curry said. "I didn't realize it would be such a big thing. But it is."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThe Golden State Warriors are set to begin their quest for a third straight title, and this time it's up to someone else to try to stop them.With LeBron James gone to the West and this year gone entirely from the postseason, the Eastern Conference headquarters for the NBA Finals won't be in his home for the first time since 2010.He played for the title for eight straight years, which may have been great for the TV ratings but lately wasn't much good for the competition. The Warriors swept Cleveland last year after winning 4-1 in 2017.Teams are lining up to seize his old spot atop the East, all capable of providing the intrigue that was absent the last couple years.There's Milwaukee, with Giannis Antetokounmpo in position to exit June fully atop the NBA with a title and an MVP award.Or Toronto, humiliated by the Cavaliers in the last two years but armed now with a former NBA Finals MVP in Kawhi Leonard.It could be Philadelphia, with Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons anchoring perhaps the most talented starting five outside of the Bay Area.And don't forget Boston, the presumptive East favorite in the preseason that can still live up to expectations.The best player is gone, but maybe things will be better."I think the parity and the competition in the East, and not knowing and everyone having a sincere chance maybe in the East that did not, when not you look between Toronto, Boston, Philadelphia," TNT analyst Chris Webber said. "All of those story lines, new young stars that's coming in."The long road to get to the finals begins Saturday with four games, including the top-seeded Warriors against the Los Angeles Clippers in the West. No. 2 Denver faces No. 7 San Antonio in the other West opener, while No. 3 Philadelphia meets No. 6 Brooklyn, and No. 2 Toronto takes on No. 7 Orlando in the East.On Sunday, the overall No. 1 seed Bucks face No. 8 Detroit, and No. 4 Boston hosts No. 5 Indiana in the East. In the West, No. 3 Portland and No. 6 Oklahoma City meet in a matchup of Northwest Division rivals, and No. 4 Houston and No. 5 Utah square off in the opener of a series between two of the strongest teams in the second half of the season.It's the start of postseason that looks different far beyond just the absence of James for the first time since 2005.It includes Denver, in the playoffs for the first time since 2013. Brooklyn is a playoff team for the first time since 2015 and Orlando is back for the first time since 2012.The Warriors, of course, haven't just been going to the postseason every year, but getting all the way to the finals once they do. They've done that four straight years, winning three of them, and with a strong finish after some occasional lapses surged to the best record in the West.Still, this playoff path could provide them plenty of obstacles. The Warriors may need to get by scoring champion James Harden and the Rockets, who took them to a seventh game last year in the conference finals, just to get back to that round this time."It doesn't matter who you play in the playoffs, you're going to get tested. Everybody's good," Golden State coach Steve Kerr said.Get out of the West, and the Warriors may have to then get on a plane. They had home-court advantage in all four finals against Cleveland, but Milwaukee and Toronto both finished with better records and would host Games 1 and 2 if they win the East.And there could be the distractions about their future, with Kevin Durant and Klay Thompson able to become free agents this summer.The Warriors wouldn't be alone when dealing with that. Toronto (Leonard), Philadelphia (Jimmy Butler and Tobias Harris) and Boston (Kyrie Irving) all will be trying to win a title with players who could then leave them.But those are issues for July. First, it's all about just getting to June."It's a great feeling," Bucks All-Star Khris Middleton said. "Playoffs don't always come around. I've been a part of that couple years but it's been a great season so far. I know guys been itching to get to this first playoff game."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideThe Philadelphia 76er who made the greatest impact in Game 3 of the team’s first-round playoff series against the Nets wasn’t Ben Simmons, the N.B.A.’s reigning rookie of the year, who scored 31 points. Nor was it the team’s most dominant player, Joel Embiid, who missed the game with knee tendinitis. Or the sharpshooter J.J. Redick. Or the four-time All Star Jimmy Butler.It was Tobias Harris, the oft-traded, oft-underappreciated power forward who has an ego compact enough to fit inside his white headband — with room to spare.“Tobias was our bell-ringer tonight,” 76ers Coach Brett Brown said Thursday after the 131-115 win gave Philadelphia a two-games-to-one lead in the best-of-seven series, which resumes Saturday in Brooklyn.Harris finished with playoff career highs of 29 points and 16 rebounds and made all six of his 3-pointers. At 6-foot-9, he owned the perimeter against the Nets’ smaller guards, and his work on defense was just as effective.“You start looking at Tobias’s rebounds and what he did from the 3-point line,” Brown said. “I’m proud of him. He’s good people, and he was fantastic tonight.”The Nets are the feel-good story of the postseason, given the expectations for them last fall. But after losses in the last two games, it would seem that chemistry, scrappiness and heart go only so far against a Philadelphia lineup with the most talent outside Golden State.Harris, who is from Dix Hills on Long Island, was the final piece of a Sixers team assembled to make a deep playoff run. In early February, amid the best season of his career, Harris was traded from the Los Angeles Clippers. He could have signed an $80 million contract extension with the Clippers in the last off-season but decided to gamble on himself instead. He elected to play out his final year and become an unrestricted free agent this summer in hopes of a max contract — and some stability.Having been traded five times in eight seasons, Harris would like to be able to drop off his dry cleaning, then wake up in the same city to pick it up. At 26, after an All-Star-caliber season, he is looking for a home. That might even be Philadelphia.He averaged 20 points and 7.9 rebounds this season in a total of 82 games with the Clippers and Sixers. In 27 regular-season games for Philadelphia, Harris averaged 18.2 points, tying him with Butler for second on the 76ers’ scoring list, behind Embiid, who averaged 27.5.For Game 4, the 76ers may still be without Embiid, which means that they will again need balanced scoring from the rest of their talented cast. On Thursday, Philadelphia had three scorers with 26 or more points (Simmons, Harris, Redick). The last time the franchise accomplished that in a playoff game was Game 3 of the 1978 conference semifinals against the Knicks. That night, it was Julius Erving, George McGinnis and World B. Free.“I felt good,” Harris said. “I just came in knowing with Joel down, it was a big scoring loss we had out there. I had to be aggressive from the start. I got some good looks throughout the game. I was able to let it fly, and it felt good for it to go in.”“It was a big game personally for myself and for the team, too,” he added.Beyond basketball, Harris co-stars in the best buddy movie in the N.B.A., known as the Bobi + Tobi Show. In 2016, Harris and Boban Marjanovic, a 7-foot-3 Serbian center, developed a close bond while playing for the Detroit Pistons. They were then traded to the Clippers for Blake Griffin in January 2018. About a year later, they became a package deal headed to Philadelphia.The Clippers produced three web episodes of the “Bobi + Tobi Show” focused on the pair’s friendship and foibles. They took a SoulCycle class together. They attempted a dance lesson. The fun continued in Philadelphia, where a TV station did a quiz show segment with them, focusing on trivia about their new city. Neither could pronounce “Schuylkill.”In Game 3, Marjanovic played the sidekick during Harris’s star turn. He came off the bench and split time with Greg Monroe, who had replaced Embiid in the starting lineup.Monroe and Marjanovic combined for 43 minutes and 21 of the Sixers’ 54 rebounds. With Harris defending on the perimeter, the load was lighter on the big men in the paint, though Marjanovic fouled out with about seven minutes left in the game.No matter. His buddy had his back. The game was in control, and Harris looked right at home.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAnthony Davis has informed the New Orleans Pelicans that the Knicks are one of four teams he would be willing to sign with for the long term if he is dealt before Thursday’s trade deadline, according to a person with knowledge of his intentions who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.Davis, one of the league’s superstars in his seventh season in New Orleans, is the biggest name in play in advance of the deadline. He requested to be traded Jan. 28, with the Los Angeles Lakers pushing hardest to get a deal done.The Lakers, along with the Knicks, Los Angeles Clippers and Milwaukee Bucks, are Davis’s preferred trade destinations as he seeks a new home on a team that already has an established star or a path to acquiring multiple stars, according to the person, who was not permitted to discuss the plans publicly.The list of teams, though, is clearly topped by the Lakers. It was first reported Monday by The Athletic and ESPN.It is believed that the list of teams was given to the Pelicans in hopes of increasing the chances Davis is dealt this week. New Orleans has considerable incentive to delay trading Davis until closer to the draft in June, when the Boston Celtics — who are not on the list but have the biggest cache of trade assets for Davis — are eligible to trade for him.While Kyrie Irving is on the Celtics’ roster, Boston cannot trade for Davis since both he and Irving are under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. League rules only allow teams to have one such player on their rosters.ESPN has reported that the Celtics are urging the Pelicans to hold onto Davis until after the season to give them an opportunity to top the Lakers’ best offer, which is expected to feature the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma as well as future first-round draft picks.Even with the Lakers seemingly established as Davis’s most likely landing spot, the Knicks’ presence on the list provides a glimmer of hope in what has been a difficult season, especially over the past week, for Knicks fans. As The Times first reported, the Knicks traded their star forward, Kristaps Porzingis, to the Dallas Mavericks last week in a move that appears largely aimed at clearing cap space to make way for high-profile free agents this summer.Yet with the worst record in the league (10-42), and after years of dysfunction, the Knicks cannot be certain they will pique the interest of any of the notable players expected to be free agents this summer, such as Kevin Durant, Irving and Kawhi Leonard.Trading for Davis is realistically only possible if the Knicks win the draft lottery in May and are then willing to trade the No. 1 overall pick to New Orleans for the draft in June. But the Knicks will hope that Davis’s interest and the mere prospect of trading for him can make them a more attractive destination for the league’s top free agents.Though he has missed New Orleans’ last seven games with a finger injury, Davis is in the midst of another outstanding season. In 41 games, he is averaging career highs in points (29.3), rebounds (13.3) and assists (4.4) per game.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — He's Kevin Durant, and the Los Angeles Clippers got reminded of it.Durant scored 38 points, Stephen Curry added 21 playing with five fouls, and the Golden State Warriors dominated from the opening tip to win 132-105 Thursday night and take a 2-1 lead in their first-round playoff series."He came out super-aggressive, in kill mode," teammate Draymond Green said of Durant. "That was all the difference for us. We took control of the game right there in the first quarter and never lost control of it."The Warriors began the game on a 22-9 tear and went on to shoot 73% from the floor in the first, taking the crowd out of it early.Durant was perfect, making all five of his field goals and both free throws for 12 points. He and Curry picked up two fouls each, but the Warriors still built a 19-point lead."As much momentum as we lost in the final 16 minutes of Game 2, we got it all back early," Curry said. "Everybody was aggressive, decisive, getting good shots on every possession. The way we went about our business was the sign of a resilient team."Game 4 is Sunday at Staples Center.Kevon Looney, again filling in for injured DeMarcus Cousins, shot 4 for 4 in the first, dunking three times in a row.Durant had 27 points at halftime despite not making a 3-pointer.Golden State coach Steve Kerr had said he wanted Durant shooting much more than the eight times he did in Game 2. When relayed his coach's comment earlier in the week, Durant replied, "I don't play like that. I'm Kevin Durant. You know who I am."The Clippers won Game 2 on the road after trailing by 31 points in the third quarter, stunning the Warriors with the largest comeback in NBA playoff history.But they couldn't find the basket this time, shooting 37% from the floor."They dissected us," Clippers coach Doc Rivers said. "You kind of felt they were going to come in and throw a punch, and we just didn't respond."The Clippers' only starter in double figures was rookie Ivica Zubac, who finished with 18 points after playing most of the fourth. Patrick Beverley, a defensive pest guarding Durant in Game 2, was limited to six points, four fouls, one rebound and no assists in 18 minutes.Lou Williams had 16 points, and Montrezl Harrell and JaMychal Green added 15 each off the bench.Los Angeles never led and failed to put together any kind of sustained run."We just got our (rear) kicked," Williams said. "That's it."Golden State's biggest run came in the third at the same time Curry was whistled for his fourth foul. The Warriors scored 14 straight points to lead 88-57. Durant and Green got hit with offsetting technicals during the spurt. Durant laughed it off and sank a jumper from the left corner seconds later."We were conversing about the play that happened before. Somebody came out of nowhere and checked us both," Durant said. "That was pretty quick. Hopefully they rescind that one because I don't want anybody to think that somebody's in my head, that's why I got that tech."The Warriors extended the margin to 35 on Alfonzo McKinnie's 3-pointer late in the period.TIP-INSWarriors: Curry is five 3-pointers away from become the first player to make 400 postseason 3s. ... They controlled the boards, 50-43, led by Andrew Bogut with 14. ... They had 35 assists.Clippers: Kentucky coach John Calipari sat in the second row to support his former player Shai Gilgeous-Alexander, who finished with seven points. ... Floyd Mayweather, Meek Mill, Scottie Pippen and Sheila E. with her dad Pete Escovedo were in the crowd.AWAY FROM HOMEThe Warriors set an NBA record by winning at least one road game in each of their last 20 playoff series.HE SAID IT"I took a little vacation in the second half." — Curry on his foul trouble.CASH AND CARRYThe $2,000 that Rivers dropped on the street in San Francisco earlier in the week was his per diem while on the road. A man picked up the dough and caught up to Rivers to return it."They give you cash these days," the coach said. "Maybe we need to go back the other way."UP NEXTGame 4 is Sunday in Los Angeles.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — The last spot in the NBA playoffs went to the Detroit Pistons.Their reward: A series against MVP candidate Giannis Antetokounmpo and the Milwaukee Bucks.The drama of the regular season went all the way to the very end of the regular season, with seven of the eight first-round playoff matchups not being clinched until the final night was in the books — the last three of them, out West, going down to literally the final moments.The two-time defending champion Golden State Warriors will start their quest for a fourth title in five years against the Los Angeles Clippers."It's not going to be as easy as people think it is," Warriors star Kevin Durant said.That's the beauty of the playoffs. It's not supposed to be easy.First-round games in all eight series will be played starting Saturday and Sunday. The second round cannot begin until April 27 at the earliest, the conference finals couldn't start before May 12 and the NBA Finals will start on May 30.EASTERN CONFERENCEThe only matchup in the NBA that was set before Wednesday night was No. 4 Boston against No. 5 Indiana.Everything else, just like all the West matchups, fell into place during Game 82s on Wednesday.The Bucks, the NBA's top overall seed, play the Pistons. No. 2 Toronto draws No. 7 Orlando, with the Magic in the postseason for the first time since 2012. And No. 3 Philadelphia — a team wrapped in intrigue right now — will face No. 6 Brooklyn.Joel Embiid played in only 10 of the 76ers' 24 games since the All-Star break, and general manager Elton Brand told reporters Wednesday that "it is possible" the team's best scorer and rebounder won't be ready to start the playoffs.Embiid isn't the only injury situation that made headlines Wednesday: The Celtics announced that Marcus Smart will miss four to six weeks with an injury to his left oblique — a massive blow to Boston.WESTERN CONFERENCEPortland rallied from 28 points down on Wednesday against Sacramento — which blew a lead that large for the second time this season.Denver finished on a 15-0 run to beat Minnesota.And with that, the West bracket was shaken up one last time before it was finally set.Top-seeded Golden State will face the eighth-seeded Clippers, a matchup that was known after early results Wednesday. The rest went right down to the wire, with No. 2 Denver facing No. 7 San Antonio, No. 3 Portland getting No. 6 Oklahoma City and No. 4 Houston facing No. 5 Utah. It was a worst-case for Houston, which entered the season's final night in place to finish second, third or fourth in the West.The way the results fell means the Rockets, if they get past the Jazz, would likely see the Warriors in the second round — and not in the Western Conference finals. So there will be no rematch of last year's title series out West, a tussle where the Rockets had a 3-2 series lead before Chris Paul's hamstring balked and the Warriors went on to advance and reach the NBA Finals.The Nuggets clinched the No. 2 seed with their big rally to top the Timberwolves. The Blazers got to the No. 3 spot with their wild comeback to beat the Kings. The combination of those results dropped Houston to the No. 4 seed.SATURDAY SCHEDULEAll times EasternBrooklyn at Philadelphia, 2:30 p.m.Orlando at Toronto, 5 p.m.L.A. Clippers at Golden State, 8 p.m.San Antonio at Denver, 10:30 p.m.SUNDAY SCHEDULEAll times EasternIndiana at Boston, 1 p.m.Oklahoma City at Portland, 3:30 p.m.Detroit at Milwaukee, 7 p.m.Utah at Houston, 9:30 p.m.SCORING MARKNBA teams averaged 111.2 points this season, the 11th-highest mark in league history.It's also the highest scoring clip in the league since 1970-71.Records were set for 3-pointers made and attempted for the seventh straight season, along with total points for the fifth time in the last six years. NBA teams scored 273,573 points this season, fueled by new rules that allowed offenses more freedom of movement, a league-wide commitment to playing at a faster pace — and the still-growing love affair with the 3-pointer.In the 2012-13 season, NBA teams averaged 20 attempts from 3-point range — which was a record at that time. This season, they averaged 32 attempted 3s per game.FAREWELLA pair of legends played for the final time Wednesday night — and went out in style.Dwyane Wade had a triple-double for Miami at Brooklyn, 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists. Dirk Nowitzki had 20 points and 10 rebounds for Dallas at San Antonio.The Heat and Mavericks both lost, which was irrelevant to both clubs. The nights were about Wade and Nowitzki, both All-Stars this season.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Golden State Warriors celebrated their final regular-season game in Oracle Arena with a third-quarter explosion Sunday night, producing a 131-104 win over the Los Angeles Clippers in Oakland, Calif., that clinched top seeding throughout the Western Conference playoffs.The win was Golden State's fifth in a row and 30th of the season at home. The Warriors' first-round opponent, which will be the eighth seed in the West, has yet to be determined. The playoffs begin next Saturday.The Clippers' third straight loss dropped them to 47-34 and closer to a first-round matchup with the Warriors. The Clippers are battling Oklahoma City (47-33) and San Antonio (47-34), both of which won Sunday, for the sixth, seventh and eighth playoff spots in the West.Curry finished with a game-high 27 points for the Warriors, who improved their all-time regular-season record at Oracle Arena to 1,166-770. Like the Warriors, all five Clippers starters scored in double figures, led by Landry Shamet with 17. All but two of Shamet's points came on 5-for-6 3-point shooting.Trail Blazers 115, Nuggets 108Damian Lillard scored 30 points, and Al-Farouq Aminu added a season-high 23 points and 11 rebounds as Portland rallied for a victory over visiting Denver.The Trail Blazers closed the game on a 17-3 run to register their ninth win in the last 11 games. CJ McCollum made his return to the Portland lineup after missing 10 games with a knee injury. McCollum collected nine points, six rebounds and six assists in 25 minutes.Gary Harris scored 18 points to lead Denver, which won the season series with Portland 3-1. The Nuggets played without center Nikola Jokic, forward Paul Millsap and guard Jamal Murray, all given the night off for rest. They need to win their final two games, or get one win and a Rockets loss in their finale at the Thunder, to secure the West's No. 2 seed.Bucks 115, Hawks 107Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 30 points with nine rebounds, and Khris Middleton added 21 as Milwaukee recorded its first 60-victory season since 1980-81 in beating visiting Atlanta.Antetokounmpo, who is now six points away from 2,000 for the second consecutive season, was back on the court for the Eastern Conference champions after missing Saturday's game against the Brooklyn Nets because of a sore left calf.Alex Len scored a career-high 33 points for the Hawks, who were playing without starters John Collins (ankle) and Trae Young (wrist). DeAndre' Bembry added 13 points for Atlanta, which already has been eliminated from playoff contention.Nets 108, Pacers 96D'Angelo Russell scored 20 points, and Brooklyn clinched its first playoff berth since 2015 by leading most of the way in a win over host Indiana.The Nets clinched at least the seventh seed after the Detroit Pistons lost to the Charlotte Hornets earlier Sunday, and could have secured the No. 6 seed if Orlando had lost its game at Boston later on Sunday. Russell shot 7-for-15 and made a 3-pointer for the 60th straight game.The Pacers lost for the ninth time in 12 games and officially are locked into the fifth seed. Even if Indiana and Boston finish tied, the Celtics own the head-to-head tiebreaker. Domantas Sabonis led Indiana with 17 points and Thaddeus Young -- who was a starting forward in 2015 for the Nets -- added 16.Magic 116, Celtics 108Orlando clinched its first postseason berth in seven years with a road win against Boston, ended the Magic's longest playoff drought in franchise historyTerrence Ross scored 14 of his 26 points in the fourth quarter, and Nikola Vucevic had 25 points and 12 rebounds for the Magic, who were perfect (22-for-22) from the free-throw line. The Magic are tied with Brooklyn for the sixth seed in the Eastern Conference with one game left in the regular season.Kyrie Irving led the Celtics with 23 points, and Al Horford added 18.Raptors 117, Heat 109Danny Green scored 21 points -- including seven in overtime -- as Toronto defeated visiting Miami, sweeping the four-game season series.Miami's playoff hopes were severely damaged by the loss. The Heat are now one game behind the Pistons -- and tied with the Hornets -- in the race for the eighth and final playoff spot in the East.Pascal Siakam added 23 points and grabbed 10 rebounds, and Norman Powell also had 23 points off the bench for the Raptors. Dwyane Wade scored 21 points for the Heat, who have lost four in a row.Hornets 104, Pistons 91Kemba Walker scored 31 points, Frank Kaminsky added a season-high 24 and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive in beating host Detroit for its third straight win, clinching a four-game sweep of the season series.The Hornets (38-42) moved into ninth place in the Eastern Conference playoff race and are one game behind the No. 8 Pistons (39-41). Charlotte holds the tiebreaker edge over both the Heat and the Pistons.Walker added eight rebounds and seven assists and the Hornets also got 17 points from Jeremy Lamb. Detroit has now lost four straight and seven of its last nine. Blake Griffin scored 16 but was hobbling much of the day with a knee injury.Rockets 149, Suns 113James Harden flirted with a triple-double, Clint Capela posted added 22 points and 13 rebounds, and Houston closed out its home schedule with a 36-point dismantling of Phoenix.The Rockets turned in their second consecutive blowout win on their home court to keep hold of the third seed in the Western Conference. Houston led 117-77 entering the fourth quarter against the short-handed Suns. The Rockets have won six straight, all by double digits by an average of 25.8 points per game.Harden posted 30 points on 10-for-14 shooting with 13 rebounds and nine assists as the Rockets set an NBA record with 27 3-pointers. The Suns, missing a half dozen regulars, have dropped eight of their last 10 games.Thunder 132, Timberwolves 126Paul George and Russell Westbrook each scored 27 points as Oklahoma City had to come from behind, scoring 37 fourth-quarter points, to win its third consecutive game by beating Minnesota in Minneapolis.Oklahoma City's first three-game winning streak since winning four in a row from Feb. 5-11 has kept the Thunder in contention for the sixth spot in the Western Conference.Westbrook also finished with 10 rebounds and 15 assists for his 136th career triple-double. Westbrook is just two behind Magic Johnson for second all-time in the category. Karl-Anthony Towns finished with 35 points, hitting 13 of 14 from the free-throw line, and Andrew Wiggins had 24 points.Spurs 112, Cavaliers 90LaMarcus Aldridge scored 18 points, including 16 in the first half to a big lead, as visiting San Antonio throttled Cleveland in the teams' penultimate game of the regular season.The Spurs' victory, their third in their past four games, allows them to continue to put pressure on Oklahoma City and the Los Angeles Clippers in the battle for the final three playoff seeds in the West.DeRozan, Davis Bertans and Patty Mills contributed 14 points apiece for the Spurs, while Forbes scored 13. Collin Sexton and Brandon Knight led the anemic Cavaliers' attack with 16 points each, while Ante Zizic added 14.Lakers 113, Jazz 109Kentavious Caldwell-Pope scored 18 of his 32 points in the fourth quarter to help Los Angeles hold off visiting Utah, whose chances of gaining home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs were damaged.The Jazz (49-31), who also saw their seven-game winning streak snapped, trail Portland by two games for fourth place in the West with two games left for each team.JaVale McGee had 22 points and eight rebounds, and Alex Caruso had 18 points and 11 assists for the Lakers. Rudy Gobert had 21 points and 10 rebounds to lead the Jazz. Donovan Mitchell scored 19 points but missed all 10 shots in the second half.Mavericks 129, Grizzlies 127 (OT)Reserve guard Devin Harris buried a tie-breaking 3-pointer with 1:26 to go in overtime, and Trey Burke scored a team-high 24 points to lead visiting Dallas past Memphis.Backup center Salah Mejri slammed home key dunks in the latter part of the fourth quarter, tipped home the tying bucket with 1.5 seconds in regulation and then opened overtime with seven consecutive points. He finished with 19 points off the bench on 7-of-12 shooting to go with nine rebounds.Starting for injured point guard Mike Conley, Delon Wright had a triple-double for the Grizzlies with 20 points, 12 assists and 13 rebounds. Justin Holiday scored a game-high 30 points, drilling six of his 11 3-point attempts.Pelicans 133, Kings 129Elfrid Payton had a double-double and made a 3-pointer that put visiting New Orleans ahead for good in a victory over Sacramento.The injury-plagued Pelicans used just eight players after choosing to rest forward Julius Randle, but all five starters had scored in double figures by the middle of the third quarter. Payton finished with 26 points and 14 assists, while Ian Clark made a career-high seven 3-pointers as he scored a season-high 31 points.Harrison Barnes scored 29 points, De'Aaron Fox had 24 points and 11 assists, and Marvin Bagley III had 19 points and 14 rebounds for the Kings (39-42), who are guaranteed a losing record for the 13th consecutive season.Knicks 113, Wizards 110Mario Hezonja scored 30 points and hit a 3-pointer with 44.8 seconds left that gave New York the lead for good in a win over visiting Washington.In his second start at point guard in place of injured Emmanuel Mudiay, Hezonja made 12 of 21 shots for the Knicks, who had lost 11 of their previous 12 against the Wizards. The Knicks (16-64) must win their final two games to avoid matching the worst record in franchise history, set in 2014-15.Jeff Green had 19 points in 16 minutes for Washington, which has lost three straight. Thomas Bryant added 17 points, and Bobby Portis contributed 11 points and 10 rebounds.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOAKLAND, Calif. — Soaking in the franchise's nostalgia of yesteryear, Stephen Curry scored 27 points and helped the Golden State Warriors clinch the Western Conference's top seed with a win in their final regular-season game at Oracle Arena, beating the Los Angeles Clippers 131-104 on Sunday night for a fifth straight victory.Kevin Durant added 16 points and seven assists, making six of seven field goals, as the Warriors players opted to honor the past by sporting throwback white "We Believe" jerseys worn during the 2007 playoff run that snapped a 12-year postseason drought.A banner commemorating 47 years at Oracle was unveiled afterward and it will move across the bay to hang inside new Chase Center in San Francisco where the Warriors will play next season."Let me just say that for 47 years, Warriors fans have stuck with us through thick and thin," coach Steve Kerr told fans moments after the final buzzer, also thanking the arena staff. "Let's be honest, most of those years have been a little thin."Landry Shamet scored 17 points with five 3-pointers for a Clippers team still missing Patrick Beverley because of a right hip pointer. Los Angeles dropped into a seventh-place tie with San Antonio in the Western Conference by losing its third straight. Now, the Clippers play the Jazz in the regular-season finale Wednesday and with various scenarios very well could be returning to Oracle next weekend for Game 1 in the first round of the playoffs.Draymond Green just missed a triple-double with 10 points, 10 rebounds and nine assists in Golden State's seventh win over the last eight games and fifth in a row at home. DeMarcus Cousins contributed 12 points, nine boards and four assists playing with foul trouble.Even with the playoffs around the corner, this was a night of celebrating the end of a nearly five-decade run in the arena."Are they not going to make the playoffs?" Clippers coach Doc Rivers quipped. "I hope they don't make it. That would be phenomenal. I'm just saying, it would be."The Warriors beat the Clippers for the 16th time in the last 18 matchups and 15th in 17 at home.Golden State made 10 of its first 13 shots — Durant hitting his initial four and Curry starting 3 for 3. Curry wound up just 3 for 10 from deep.HONORING ORACLEThe Warriors played their 1,936th regular-season game at Oracle, where the first game was held on Oct. 24, 1967, against Cincinnati. Golden State's overall record in the venue: 1,166-770."Since it's not really the last game here, I know it's a ceremonial final game, I didn't get too sentimental or emotional or anything because hopefully we will be coming back here and playing a lot more games in the next couple months," Kerr said. "I'll probably hold off onto the emotion until it actually happens."Kerr narrated an appreciation video to fans and the arena on a night old favorites such as Sleepy Floyd, Rick Barry, Adonal Foyle and Marreese Speights were on hand for the festivities.The Oakland Symphony performed at halftime as more highlights played.TIP-INSClippers: Rivers would like to play the Warriors in the playoffs, just not in the first round. "If you want to win, you've got to play somebody at some point. We're not dodging," Rivers said. "I just want to be healthy and playing great in the playoffs. Do we want to play the Warriors in the playoffs? Yes. Do we want to do it in the first round? Probably not, but you've got to take it when you get it." ... Los Angeles is 0-4 without Beverley, who missed his third straight game. ... All five starters reached double figures.Warriors: A tribute to Al Attles was shown on the big screen during a first-quarter timeout for his selection into the Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame. Attles, a former player, coach, general manager with the Warriors and current ambassador, hasn't been well enough to attend games this season but received an ovation. ... Cousins received his third foul 6:49 before halftime on a debatable charge. ... Shaun Livingston, who had been questionable with a bruised left knee, made all four of his shots in 13 minutes. ... Every Warriors player scored. ... Andre Iguodala sat out with a sore left toe. ... Golden State finished 30-11 at home and 19-7 against the Western Conference.UP NEXTClippers: Host Utah on Wednesday.Warriors: At New Orleans on Tuesday to start a back-to-back to conclude the season at Memphis on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The Los Angeles Lakers described last weekend’s N.B.A. All-Star break as an opportunity for a much-needed reset, with the hope that they could ultimately make a playoff push after spending a few days apart. None of it sounded very convincing.But when the team reconvened for practice on Wednesday morning, LeBron James said his level of intensity had been “activated,” as if he were a superhero who had flipped a switch. He does not usually activate himself this early in the season, he said, but the Lakers need all of him now — in large part because they had lost so much ground when he was sidelined for about a month with a groin injury.“We would have loved to have had success when I was out, but we didn’t, so this is where we are right now,” James said.And when asked how he would elevate the play of his younger teammates, he put it simply: “We don’t have a choice.”In other words, it was sink or swim for the Lakers before their game against the Houston Rockets on Thursday night, and there would be no lifeguard.For one night, at least, the Lakers swam. They were cohesive enough to come away with a 111-106 victory against one of the better teams in the Western Conference. For one night, at least, the Lakers showed that they could erase a 19-point deficit by playing solid defense and making their free throws. For one night, at least, the Lakers could depend on players like Brandon Ingram (27 points, 13 rebounds) and Kyle Kuzma (18 points) to deliver in a game that the team really needed to win.The question now is whether the Lakers, who at 29-29 are the very definition of average, can build off it. Consistency has not been their hallmark.“It can give us some momentum that we need,” Coach Luke Walton said, “or it can do nothing. It depends how we respond to this.”Not so long ago, the Lakers had a similarly galvanizing win — or so it seemed.It was Feb. 7, and before the league’s trade deadline Magic Johnson, the team’s president of basketball operations, had failed in his quest to ship nearly half of the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans in exchange for the All-Star center Anthony Davis. It was a huge soap opera, and the Lakers responded in surprising fashion: by going out that night and defeating the Boston Celtics — on the road, no less.The win, though, was fool’s gold. The Lakers got pulverized by the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, then hobbled into the All-Star break with a loss to the Atlanta Hawks — a performance so devoid of energy that it seemed to signal a dysfunctional locker room, and maybe even one that was beyond repair.The team was below .500.Walton encouraged his players to reflect and refocus over the break. For James, that meant returning to Los Angeles in playoff mode — much earlier than he would prefer.But this is unfamiliar territory for James, a three-time champion who has made 13 straight trips to the playoffs and eight straight appearances in the N.B.A. finals. Now, with an inexperienced batch of teammates on the Lakers, he is merely fighting to lead them into the postseason.“I’m all about being uncomfortable,” he said this week. “I love being uncomfortable. I fall in love with being uncomfortable, so this is another uncomfortable thing for me, and I love it.”Then he must have loved what happened against the Rockets (33-25), who built a gaping lead in the third quarter behind James Harden. But the Lakers dominated the fourth quarter by limiting the Rockets to 36.8 percent shooting and forcing six turnovers. James finished with 29 points, 11 rebounds and 6 assists.“He’s had more of a serious focus on his face, about him, the last two days, even in the practice facility,” Walton said, adding: “I think he recognizes where we’re at and the sense of urgency we need to play with.”The Lakers also benefited from the fresh presence of Reggie Bullock, a versatile wing whom they acquired from the Detroit Pistons at the trade deadline. Bullock scored 14 points and defended the Rockets’ James Harden for long stretches. For a team that lacks much experience, Bullock could make a difference moving forward.“He’s a vet,” James said. “It’s great to have a shooter of his caliber, of his size; his competitive nature out on the floor. He was big for us.”The Lakers left Staples Center two and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final playoff spot in the West. But James expressed supreme confidence as the team prepared to visit the Pelicans on Saturday.“I like where I’m at,” he said. “I will love where I’m at in the next few games, and I believe — continue to get better and better.”As for his teammates — well, that is up to them.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLou Williams, who has the unusual role of leading the Clippers in scoring while coming off the bench, does not run around the court so much as flutter across it. At 6 feet 1 inch and 175 pounds, he has embraced his identity as a butterfly among a herd of cattle.But at this stage of his career, Williams wants to feel as light and nimble as possible — so he essentially starves himself on game days. After a big breakfast, he refuses to eat again until well after the game itself, often going nearly 12 hours between meals.It is one of several habits that Williams, 32, has developed over the years, and one that clearly works for him. It is also the opposite of how most elite athletes prepare for games. But Williams is different: He wants to take the court with an appetite.“That’s crazy,” Landry Shamet, the first-year Clippers guard, said. “I’d weigh about 115 pounds if I did that.”The Clippers, as they often have this season, turned to Williams on Monday night for an extraordinary performance — this time against the Golden State Warriors in Game 2 of their first-round playoff series. In the Clippers’ 135-131 win, Williams collected 36 points and 11 assists to help erase a 31-point deficit.Shamet sealed the biggest comeback in N.B.A. playoff history with a go-ahead 3-pointer with 16.5 seconds left, and the Clippers evened the best-of-seven series at one game apiece.“I’m one of those guys who can get hot,” said Williams, who shot 13 of 22 from the field, “and I just got lost in the moment.”The Clippers, who have thrived behind Williams in the wake of a midseason deal that sent Tobias Harris to the Philadelphia 76ers, will need all of him again — all his scoring, all his savvy, all his unusual rituals — when the Warriors come to Los Angeles for Game 3 on Thursday.Make no mistake, the Clippers have their share of scrappy, no-nonsense guys. Patrick Beverley, who has spent the series covering the Warriors’ Kevin Durant like aluminum foil, would trash talk a telephone pole.Williams, on the other hand, carries himself with a brand of quiet composure that has a power all its own.“He goes about his business,” said Sam Cassell, an assistant coach for the Clippers. “He’s not overwhelmingly faster than people. He’s not bigger than people. But he understands what he can do on the basketball court, and he does it well.”The Warriors’ Klay Thompson recently came across a package of highlight clips from Williams’s days as a star guard at South Gwinnett High School outside of Atlanta. What stood out to Thompson was how little Williams had changed.“He played the exact same way,” Thompson said in an interview before the start of the series. “It was incredible: same step-back jumper, same hesitations, same floaters.”Williams has stuck with the same general blueprint while refining his skills — slicker, craftier, jazzier. He has also become more resilient. There was a time, he said, when he thought his career might be finished. In 2013, he tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee while playing for the Atlanta Hawks. In his comeback, he turned to Kenny Atkinson, who was then one of the team’s assistants, to help reassemble his game.Atkinson, now the head coach of the Nets, imbued Williams with the importance of routine.“Kenny is one of my all-time favorite people in the world,” Williams said. “I give him a lot of credit for getting me back on my feet when I was down and out.”By 2015, Williams was the N.B.A.’s sixth man of the year with the Toronto Raptors. But he has never been better, more efficient or more dynamic than he has been in his last two seasons with the Clippers, all at an age — early 30s — when most players see their production begin to erode.Instead, Williams, who has scored more points off the bench than any other player in league history, has only improved. This season, he averaged 20 points and 5.4 assists in just 26.6 minutes a game. Williams also had the ball in his hands more than ever, with the Clippers running 32.4 percent of their plays through him whenever he was on the court, according to usage-rate statistics compiled by Basketball Reference.Coming off the bench was never something that he necessarily wanted to do, but Williams has no doubt that the role has helped preserve his career because it has kept his minutes down. He has averaged 24.6 minutes a game over his 14-year career. (LeBron James, by comparison, has averaged 38.6 minutes.)“It’s given me an opportunity to stretch my career out, and I think I’m in my prime right now, man,” Williams said. “I’m just rolling.”At the same time, Williams has his quirky customs, which help give him a sense of stability, starting with his game-day breakfast: hash browns, egg whites, French toast and chicken sausage along with a fruit smoothie that he sweetens with honey. He loads up because he knows he won’t eat again for a while.“I guess my body’s gotten used to it,” Williams said, who will just do the smoothie if the Clippers have an early tipoff.He also has the peculiar habit of arriving at the arena on the late side, about 90 minutes before the start of the game.“I don’t like idle time,” he said.Once there, though, Williams has an active schedule: 15 minutes in the training room getting stretched out, 10 minutes in the weight room doing exercises with a stretch band and a medicine ball, then about 17 minutes on the court making 150 field goals as Cassell feeds him passes.Before a recent home game ahead of the playoffs, Williams made nearly 80 percent of his attempts, including two skyscraping moonshots from the baseline, which is a shot that he has developed in case a 7-footer lunges at him with his arms extended. Williams says he only practices shots that he will attempt in games, however improbable or acrobatic.“I catch myself at least two or three times a game just putting my hands up, like, ‘How did that even happen?’” Shamet said.Williams wraps up his on-court work with 20 free throws and 10 court-width sprints, then retreats to the locker room to put on his ankle braces and check his phone. “Just to make sure there’s no family emergencies or anything like that,” he said.With 20 minutes on the clock, the Clippers have their team meeting. Before they head to the court, Williams gathers his teammates around him for one final huddle — or rather, they gather around him, as if he has some sort of gravitational pull.Once the game begins, Williams takes a seat on the bench — which is the only time he stops moving. But he is watching his potential defenders and studying the flow, readying himself for the moment when he sheds his warm-ups late in the first quarter.If Cassell can pinpoint one flaw, it might be that Williams commits too many turnovers. He is an excellent passer, especially coming off ball screens — Shamet considers him one of the most underrated passers in the league — but he sometimes tries to do too much, Cassell said. So Cassell will remind Williams to do what he does best: Shoot the ball. It is what everyone wants to see from Williams, who is regarded around the league as a player whom other players love to watch.“It means a lot coming from my peers,” Williams said. “I think as competitors, that’s why we get into this, to gain respect from the guys who have played the game, and you walk away and they say, ‘He was a tough cover — that dude was nice.’”All while being fueled with a hunger of his own creation.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaHOUSTON — DeMarcus Cousins used to watch soap operas with his grandmother when he was growing up. She would refer to them as her “stories,” he said, and “As the World Turns” was her favorite. Cousins could never fully relate to the absurd drama of his grandmother’s stories until this season, when he joined the Golden State Warriors.“Every episode it was something,” he said. “And that’s what this has turned into.”Cousins is sometimes an innocent bystander. (Consider the midseason beef between Kevin Durant and Draymond Green that stemmed from a late-game meltdown against the Los Angeles Clippers and bled into Durant’s impending free agency.) But sometimes Cousins is involved, even if it is not his choice. He was aware, for example, before Wednesday’s game against the Houston Rockets, that members of the news media and the general public were picking apart his defense and referring to him as a liability.“We all been in this business long enough to know how it goes,” said Cousins, a 6-foot-11 center. “And I’ve been around this team to know how things go around here. You’re always looking for something to make a story. I mean, I could care less. You all got to do your jobs, and I got to do mine.”For all the laments about Cousins’s vulnerability in pick-and-roll defensive situations, there is no denying his offensive impact when he is focused, and he was supremely focused against the Rockets on Wednesday night, collecting 27 points, 8 rebounds and 7 assists in a 106-104 victory that infused the team with some positive vibes.Scoring down low, passing out of the post, setting meaty screens — Cousins does things that the Warriors have seldom featured in their four-plus seasons of dominance.“For as long as we can remember, we haven’t had a guy we can just throw the ball to in the post and work around him,” Stephen Curry said.It is still a process, of course, both for the Warriors, who are working to incorporate another mammoth personality into their fold as they pursue a third straight championship, and for Cousins, a four-time All-Star who spent the first few months of the season building strength and working on his conditioning as he recovered from an Achilles’ tendon tear.Since Cousins made his season debut on Jan. 18, the Warriors are 15-7. But they had lost six of their last 10 games entering Wednesday, and the general mood of the team felt flat. Curry likened it to when Durant joined the Warriors in 2016, and the team spent the first two or three months of the season trying to find its rhythm.“There was a little sensitivity to how everybody was going to get their shots,” Curry said. “At the end of the day, we’re all talented and we all have high basketball I.Q.s, so just let things happen. You don’t have to force anything. We’ve been good at it at times, and not so good at other times. So it’s just a matter of sticking with the program.”After sinking 11 of 16 shots against the Rockets, Cousins acknowledged that it was the best he had felt since he made his return.“I think it’s coming,” Cousins said. “We’ve had stretches where it’s kind of flowing for everybody. But this is a team that’s been together for a while, and they’re used to playing a certain type of way. So for me to just come in — I’m not expecting this team to adjust to me. Obviously, I have to adjust to them.”Durant missed the game with a sprained ankle, which meant that Cousins had more playmaking opportunities than usual. Coach Steve Kerr made some adjustments, too, staggering Cousins and Green for stretches so that each had more room to operate in the middle of the court. Kerr has also been advising his players to pump the brakes in transition.“Sometimes we’ve played a little too fast and shot too many quick shots instead of letting him get down on the block and controlling things,” Kerr said, referring to Cousins. He added: “I think we’ve got to remind ourselves that this is still early in the process. We’re all learning. Me too. I’ve got to learn to use him better.”If Cousins still appears to labor at times (or most of the time) to get overly airborne, his confidence seems fine.“I don’t think anyone can stop me one on one, period,” he said. “So you can put whoever you want on me.”The Warriors and the Rockets have history. In last season’s Western Conference finals, Houston had a 3-2 series lead against Golden State, but Chris Paul injured his hamstring in Game 5. The Rockets lost the final two games of the series without him, and the Warriors went on to successfully defend their N.B.A. championship.Cousins was not involved in that series, but he is a part of the dynamic now — and the Warriors are not quite finished preparing themselves for the postseason. Andrew Bogut, a defense-minded center who last played for Golden State in 2016, is expected to join the team in the coming days after an M.V.P. season with the Sydney Kings of Australia’s National Basketball League. Kerr recently described Bogut as “an insurance policy in the frontcourt.”Yes, the league’s most compelling drama is about to welcome the return of a former cast member. For his part, Cousins said he would continue to focus on the only role he knows.“I just want to play basketball,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperMajor League Baseball and the Chicago Cubs moved to distance themselves from one of their own Tuesday, after the news outlet Splinter published a cache of racist emails sent and received by Joe Ricketts, the billionaire whose family owns the Chicago Cubs and Wrigley Field.Many of the published emails, sent between 2009 to 2013, focused on a fear of Muslims and contained conspiracy theories about former President Barack Obama. The false assertion that Obama, who identifies as Protestant, was Muslim and born outside the United States were prevalent in right-wing politics during his presidency.In one email, Ricketts wrote to somebody identified only as S.V. that “Christians and Jews can have a mutual respect for each other to create a civil society,” but “Islam cannot do that.” He went on to write that, “we cannot ever let Islam become a large part of our society,” and that “Muslims are naturally my (our) enemy.”Major League Baseball released a statement condemning the emails but seemingly tried to absolve Ricketts of some responsibility.“While many of the emails were not written by Mr. Ricketts, the content is extremely offensive and completely at odds with the values and principles of Major League Baseball,” the statement said.In a statement on his website, Ricketts apologized for his emails. “I deeply regret and apologize for some of the exchanges I had in my emails,” he wrote. “Sometimes I received emails that I should have condemned. Other times I’ve said things that don’t reflect my value system. I strongly believe that bigoted ideas are wrong.”Tom Ricketts, chairman of the Cubs, denounced his father’s emails in a statement and tried to distance the Cubs from him.“We are aware of the racially insensitive emails in my father’s account that were published by an online media outlet,” the statement read. “Let me be clear: The language and views expressed in those emails have no place in our society.”Tom Ricketts continued: “My father is not involved with the operation of the Chicago Cubs in any way.”The Cubs are owned through a trust the Ricketts family controls.Joe Ricketts, who earned his fortune as the founder and chairman of brokerage TD Ameritrade, and his wife Marlene, sold $403 million of stock to finance the purchase.Ricketts’s four children run the Cubs day to day. Tom Ricketts is the chairman; on the board of directors are Pete Ricketts, the Republican governor of Nebraska; Todd Ricketts, finance chairman of the Republican National Committee; and Laura Ricketts, who was a major bundler for the presidential campaigns of Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.The Ricketts family purchased a 95 percent stake in the Cubs and Wrigley Field from the Tribune Company in 2009.In other sports leagues, offensive behavior has led to owners selling their franchises. Donald Sterling was forced to sell the Los Angeles Clippers of the N.B.A. after a tape of him making racist comments became public. Sterling was banned from the league for life.Jerry Richardson, the owner of the N.F.L.’s Carolina Panthers, announced he would sell his team shortly after a report came out that revealed he had been accused of sexually harassing employees and making racist comments.In September, the N.B.A. fined Mark Cuban, the owner of the Dallas Mavericks, for the way he and team officials handled sexual harassment complaints.For Joe Ricketts, this is not the first time his political activities have harmed the Cubs. He is a major funder of conservative causes and gave $1 million to a political action committee supporting Donald Trump during his presidential campaign.In 2012, The New York Times reported that Joe Ricketts was considering spending $10 million on a campaign that would attack Obama’s connection to Reverend Jeremiah Wright, a former spiritual adviser who Obama denounced during the 2008 presidential campaign. At the same time, the Cubs were asking Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel for $300 million in public money, as part of a $500 million renovation of Wrigley Field and the surrounding area.Emanuel, who served in the White House as Obama’s chief of staff, was reportedly “livid” over the proposed campaign, and stopped talking to Cubs officials about the renovation shortly thereafter. The Ricketts family ultimately financed the renovations privately. Those renovations are ongoing.In a statement Tuesday, Emanuel condemned the emails. “Joe Ricketts once said that I do not share his values. Truer words were never spoken,” he said. “The ignorance and intolerance he has espoused are not welcome in Chicago. I am proud not to share his bigoted opinions. Hate has no home in Chicago.”Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAnthony Davis has the Knicks on equal footing with the Los Angeles Lakers as he considers what teams he would be willing to join on a long-term deal after securing a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans, according to two people with knowledge of Davis’s thinking.A trade to any team did not appear imminent Wednesday night, as Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline drew near. But Davis’s recent request to be traded did not include a demand that the move happen before the deadline, according to the people, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the situation publicly.The Knicks have won only one playoff series over the past 18 seasons and their public image has suffered under the ownership of James L. Dolan. But the lure of playing in one of the league’s most attractive markets along with the way the Knicks have positioned themselves to pursue marquee free agents after trading away their franchise player, Kristaps Porzingis, have resonated with Davis, according to the people.The Lakers had been aggressively trying to complete a trade for Davis with the Pelicans before the deadline, because the Boston Celtics — who have been planning a trade run at Davis for months — cannot trade for the All-Star forward while Kyrie Irving is on the Celtics’ roster. (Davis and Irving are both playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions; league rules preclude teams from fielding more than one such player.)The Lakers, however, backed out of trade talks for Davis on Tuesday, according to The Los Angeles Times. ESPN reported Wednesday night that there had been no communication Wednesday between New Orleans General Manager Dell Demps and Lakers President Magic Johnson.The Knicks, who unsuccessfully attempted to interest New Orleans in a Porzingis-headlined trade for Davis last month, could still make offers for Davis up to Thursday’s deadline. But they might fare better after the draft lottery in May, when the Knicks’ position in the June 20 draft is cemented.Thanks in part to the Porzingis trade, the Knicks have amassed seven first-round picks over the next five years to go with a core of promising young players headlined by Kevin Knox and the newly acquired Dennis Smith Jr. Skepticism permeates the Knicks’ fan base as the team appears headed toward its sixth successive non-playoff season, but their trade assets position the Knicks to make a legitimate run at Davis before a big free-agent summer. In the off-season, the Knicks plan to use the significant salary-cap space opened by the Porzingis deal to pursue marquee free agents such as Golden State’s Kevin Durant and Irving in Boston.The Knicks are aware of Davis’s strong interest in playing in New York, according to the people. Either way, though, Davis is leaning toward playing out his current contract and becoming a free agent in July 2020 no matter where he is traded.Since Davis lodged his trade request on Jan. 28, there have been numerous reports that he is not willing to sign a long-term contract with the Celtics, but Sports Illustrated and the Boston Herald were among the news media outlets to report this week that Celtics officials had urged the Pelicans to hold off on trading Davis until the off-season, insisting that Boston could produce an offer that would trump any competing proposals.The Los Angeles Clippers and the Milwaukee Bucks are the other two teams, along with the Lakers and Knicks, with whom Davis has indicated a willingness to sign for the long term.Davis has missed six games with a finger injury but was seeking to play in both of New Orleans’ games this week. The Pelicans, however, opted to hold Davis out while working on trades and have not yet disclosed whether they plan to allow Davis to return to the lineup if he is not traded this week. Davis, according to a person with knowledge of his thinking, would like to play out the season with the Pelicans if no trade materializes before the deadline, despite the fact that the injury risk would be significant for both player and team.The trade saga has rocked both the Pelicans and the Lakers. Los Angeles suffered a 42-point defeat Tuesday night amid the constant speculation about the Lakers trying to package Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma with draft picks to acquire Davis with a goal of pairing one of the game’s best big men with the LeBron James. Both Davis and James are represented by the agent Rich Paul.Despite having missed 14 games through injury, Davis is in the midst of another outstanding season. In 41 games, he is averaging career highs in points (29.3), rebounds (13.3) and assists (4.4) per game and has been selected by Western Conference coaches to appear in the Feb. 17 All-Star Game in Charlotte.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOAKLAND, Calif. — Steve Kerr preached to the Golden State Warriors to not "take the bait."The bait being Patrick Beverley.Stephen Curry scored 38 points and made eight 3-pointers to give him the most in postseason history, and the top-seeded Golden State Warriors began their quest for a three-peat by running away from the frustrated Los Angeles Clippers for a 121-104 victory in their playoff opener Saturday on a night tempers flared.Kevin Durant and Beverley were ejected with 4:41 to go, just 19 seconds after they received double-technicals when Durant stripped Beverley and the Clippers guard fell into the scorer's table. They both became enraged again and official Ed Malloy immediately sent them both to the locker room. Durant high-fived fans as he exited and the home crowd went into chants of "Beat L.A.!"Durant said Beverley has a "different type of grit" coming from Chicago."You know what he's going to bring to the table, just the physicality, mucking up the game a little bit with his physicality, his talking, everything. That's what he brings to each team he plays on. That's his identity," Durant said. "For me, I know that coming into the series. I thought it was fun tonight."Like Durant, Beverley said he had fun."I got pushed, I got up and I got ejected. I guess the refs, I guess he saw something that I don't know," he said. "But that's all right. I give them a lot of credit." Perhaps this old, heated rivalry still has all the testiness of years past — just with new faces all around."Pat's going to talk, and that's legal," Clippers coach Doc Rivers said.Curry shot 8 for 12 from deep to pass Ray Allen (385) for career postseason 3s with 386, had a postseason career-high 15 rebounds, seven assists and the 31st 30-point postseason performance of his career."To be in the same category and to pass a guy like Ray Allen and all the iconic moments he's had in playoff games and finals games, it's pretty surreal," Curry said. "Definitely honored and grateful for those opportunities. I always joked, if I shoot a lot of 3s I better make a lot of them."On one of his marvelous 3s, the two-time MVP knocked one down from way back late in the third, nearly did the splits in the air and landed on his back side — still smiling all the while.These teams are meeting for just the second time in the postseason after the Clippers took a seven-game series in the first round in 2014 when the California franchises had a deep dislike for each other.Game 2 is Monday night back at Oracle Arena.Draymond Green got Golden State going by making all five of his shots in the first quarter on the way to 17 points to go with seven assists and seven rebounds, while Durant scored 23 points as the Warriors ran their postseason winning streak to seven games.Montrezl Harrell scored 26 points and fellow reserve Lou Williams contributed 25 points and nine assists as Los Angeles returned to the playoffs after missing last season following six straight appearances.Beverley, who missed last Sunday's 131-104 loss at Oracle because of a right hip pointer and was booed during pregame introductions, didn't score in the first half and wound up with three points on 1-for-7 shooting, seven assists and seven rebounds.He and Durant received double-technicals with 5 minutes left before they got into it again."We took the bait. He took the bait. That's two technicals. You get seven technicals. Your seventh one is a suspension in the playoffs," Kerr said. "He's got four to play with after one game. That's what Beverley does. ... You cannot take the bait. That's a bad trade for us. The Clippers have made a lot of good trades this year. That may be their best."The Clippers lost their cool on a couple of occasions, and that hurt playing in an already difficult road arena.Danilo Gallinari's technical in the final minute of the second only further fueled the home crowd, and Curry capitalized as the Warriors ran to a 69-56 halftime advantage."Curry has destroyed us all year," Rivers said.COUSINS' NIGHTDeMarcus Cousins fouled out with 7:16 left after scoring nine points in his playoff following a nine-year wait and nearly yearlong comeback from last January's devastating torn left Achilles tendon that required surgery.Cousins, who played his first game of the season Jan. 18 at the Clippers, had nine rebounds and four assists.POISEKerr challenged the Warriors — not to mention himself with a self-acknowledged temper — to be more disciplined yelling at the officials. Green was knocked down by Beverley on a no-call early and argued but avoided a technical."Fans need to understand, it wouldn't be possible to officiate the games the exact same way in the playoffs as the regular season. The games would take four hours," Kerr said.The Clippers had their own costly moments arguing.Williams and Rivers also were heated late in the first half about no fouls being called.Rivers received a technical leaving the court at halftime and Klay Thompson shot a free throw before the third quarter began."All I want is consistency. That's what I got a tech for at halftime," Rivers said, noting Gallinari said nothing offensive to deserve a technical.TIP-INSClippers: The Clippers were 2 of 10 from deep in the first half, when they had only 13 assists. ... Los Angeles, which has lost four straight on the Warriors' home floor, was outrebounded 53-40.Warriors: Curry notched his fifth career double-digit postseason rebounding game. ... Durant (3,679) passed Dirk Nowitzki (3,663) for 15th place on the career playoff scoring list. ... The Warriors have won seven straight postseason Game 1s and 14 of 15 openers in all — going 16-1 in their first game of a series dating to the 2014-15 season.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOAKLAND, Calif. — Lou Williams led the Los Angeles Clippers to the largest postseason comeback in NBA history.Landry Shamet hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 16.5 seconds left, Stephen Curry couldn't answer on the other end, and the Clippers somehow rallied from 31 points down on the road to stun the Golden State Warriors 135-131 on Monday night and even their first-round playoff series at one game apiece.The comeback topped a 29-point rally by the Los Angeles Lakers in the 1989 Western Conference semifinals over Seattle. The Clippers confirmed it's the best comeback ever."That's a record we didn't necessarily want to have. We'll take it," Williams said. "You're competitive and you get lost in the game. Once you cut the lead to 12, you cut the lead to 10, then you realize you've got a game going. I'm one of those guys who can get hot."Curry scored 29 points and put the Warriors up 131-128 with 58 seconds left before Shamet's dagger on a night the two-time defending NBA champions lost DeMarcus Cousins to a leg injury in the first quarter."We changed a couple things offensively and defensively in the third on the fly. It worked out for us. But I thought it was our spirit more than anything," Clippers coach Doc Rivers said. "Just every single guy. I loved the end of the game."Williams tied the game on a jumper with 1:10 to play then Curry immediately answered. Williams scored again at 46 seconds and finished with 36 points and made 8 of 10 free throws in as the teams combined for 64 fouls and 76 free throws attempted."When I say we stopped playing, we stopped playing, like defense, offense, execution-wise we were not as engaged as we needed to be," Warriors coach Steve Kerr said. "We got exactly what we deserved. The Clippers were great. They executed, they were hungry, they stayed connected. They were together."Cousins injured his left quadriceps muscle in the first quarter and was done for the game, but Golden State's depth shined and the Warriors built a 23-point halftime lead they pushed to a 31-point advantage before failing to hold off Los Angeles late.Williams' jumper and three-point play with 5:34 left pulled the Clippers within 120-117 then he rebounded his own miss and scored the putback at the 5:05 mark and cut it to 121-119."The wheels fell off," Curry said.Cousins was scheduled to undergo an MRI exam after the injury in just his second career playoff game following a nine-year wait. The big man returned in January from a nearly year-long absence following surgery for a torn left Achilles tendon.He won't play in Game 3 on Thursday at Staples Center and Cousins' entire postseason is in serious doubt.Kerr said Cousins will be out "a while.""There's a pretty significant quad injury," Kerr said.Cousins hobbled to the locker room at the 8:09 mark of the first quarter. At the 8 1/2-minute mark Cousins stole the ball from Patrick Beverley in the back court and tried to retrieve the loose ball when went down in front of the Golden State bench and grabbed at his left quad.LeBron James tweeted prayers for Cousins, who fouled out of Saturday's 121-104 Game 1 win with nine points, nine rebounds and four assists in 21 minutes.Kevon Looney picked up the bulk of the extra minutes in Cousins' absence and scored a career-high 19 points making all six of his shots but the Warriors had their seven-game postseason winning streak snapped that dated to last year's run to a repeat championship. Durant had 21 points, five rebounds and five assists, Klay Thompson scored 17 points and Draymond Green 14 with nine assists.Curry followed up a 38-point performance in Game 1 that gave him the most 3s in postseason history with another nice showing but Golden State hurt itself with too many miscues.The Warriors committed 21 turnovers in Game 1, then 22 more Monday — nine by Durant."We let our guard down. We weren't the aggressors anymore. We didn't deserve to win that game," Thompson said.Los Angeles wanted to do a better job stopping the late bursts each quarter the Warriors had in Game 1, and the Clippers were somehow able to claw their way back.Both coaches challenged their teams to be more poised in Game 2 following the ejections of Beverley and Durant in the opener. Beverley again pushed the limits but the sides avoided a testy encore, and he fouled out with 4:33 to go to roaring cheers from the sellout crowd. Kevin Durant fouled out at 1:21 with a third straight offensive foul.DURANT'S APOLOGYAt morning shootaround, Durant apologized for being tossed from Game 1.The two-time reigning finals MVP has two technicals, and if he reaches seven during the postseason it brings an automatic one-game suspension."I don't want to disappoint my coaches and my fan base and owners who expect me to be out on the floor, so I apologize for being thrown out the game," Durant said. "Just keep my mouth shut, just play the game. Simple."DOC APPRECIATES GOOD DEEDDoc Rivers dropped $2,000 cash on the street in San Francisco earlier in the day — and offered a pregame "shoutout" to the man with the integrity to return the money."Kept walking, didn't know it. The guy tapped me on the back and said, 'that's your money,'" Rivers shared. "I don't know a lot of places that that would happen, but it happened today, so whoever that was he could have had free tickets if you hadn't ran away."TIP-INSClippers: Williams scored 17 points in the third to match Chris Paul's postseason franchise record done May 5, 2014, against Oklahoma City. ... The L.A. backups scored another 83 points after getting 65 in the opener. In fact, in Game 1, Harrell (26) and Williams (25) were the first teammates to come off the bench and score 25 or more points in a postseason game since bench stats began in 1970-71, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.Warriors: With his 129th career playoff game, Durant passed Kerr for 73rd place on the NBA's all-time list. ... C Andrew Bogut (419) moved by Clifford Ray (411) for sixth place on the Warriors' career postseason rebounds list.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. season unofficially began with a superstar’s trade demand before the superstar in question (Jimmy Butler) and his team at the time (Minnesota) had even convened for training camp.Seven months and more than 1,200 games later, Magic Johnson upstaged the retirements of two legends — Dirk Nowitzki and Dwyane Wade — in unbecoming fashion by abruptly walking away from Jeanie Buss, LeBron James and the rest of the Los Angeles Lakers through a chaotic hour of unscheduled interviews with the news media.And there were countless dramas and controversies between those bookends, from the Houston Rockets’ poor start and near-instant divorce from Carmelo Anthony ... to the sad disintegration of the New Orleans Pelicans’ season after Anthony Davis’s trade demand … to the Lakers’ injury-driven collapse that ultimately prevented King James from reaching the postseason for the first time in 14 years.Regular season? Hardly. From Butler’s trade request to Friday’s announcement from the Lakers that they were parting ways with Coach Luke Walton, it was an exhausting ride. Yet we’ve finally arrived where we wanted to be all along: Saturday’s start of the playoffs.The overriding question now, as we step off that roller coaster and onto another, remains Golden State-centric for the fourth successive spring:Can anyone out there beat the Warriors four times in a seven-game series?My answer remains a firm no. But what will make this postseason unlike any other, beyond LeBron’s absence, is the array of ancillary questions sure to sprout about the futures of the Warriors and many of the teams chasing them.Only 80 days away, remember, is the July 1 start of a free-agent frenzy that is bound to be strongly influenced by playoff results. The principals: Golden State’s Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and DeMarcus Cousins; Boston’s Kyrie Irving; Toronto’s Kawhi Leonard; Philadelphia’s Tobias Harris and Butler; Milwaukee’s Khris Middleton; Charlotte’s Kemba Walker; and Orlando’s Nikola Vucevic.Just to name 10 past, present and future All-Stars.“I think this summer is going to be the most pivotal time in N.B.A. history,” said Charles Barkley, Turner Sports’ Hall of Fame analyst. “It’s going to dictate the next five years.”Any chance the Raptors have of persuading Leonard to stay in Canada, after months of noise suggesting that the Los Angeles Clippers are the front-runners to sign him, would seem to depend on a run to the N.B.A. finals. The Raptors are indeed my pick to get there by winning the post-LeBron East, but the high stakes involved, along with Toronto’s tortured playoff history, will weigh heavily on this team despite its potential as a defensive juggernaut.The pressure is even more tangible in Philadelphia thanks to the 76ers’ all-in trades for Harris and Butler. Those two, along with the sharpshooting J J Redick, are all free agents-to-be. It’s a lot for Sixers Coach Brett Brown to manage, especially when his best player, Joel Embiid, may not be available for the start of Philadelphia’s first-round series with the Nets because of a knee issue that has lingered since the All-Star Game. Whispers about Brown’s job security, as a result, are starting to circulate.Uncertainty likewise smothers the Celtics, who failed to even win 50 games and openly grappled with chemistry issues after finding the reintegration of Irving and Gordon Hayward, the former All-Star swingman, far more complicated than anyone — Boston officials included — expected. Fears of a two-round injury absence for the rugged guard Marcus Smart don’t help, with the looming specter of Irving’s free agency and a possible trade pursuit of Davis adding to the tension.Milwaukee, meanwhile, has the statistical profile of a team that should be heavily favored to represent the East in the finals and potentially take down the Warriors — except for the fact that the next playoff series won by the otherworldly Giannis Antetokounmpo will be his first. The Bucks are the only team in the league that ranked in the top five in offensive and defensive efficiency, but I confess to being one of those old-school pundits hung up on their lack of big-game experience.Denver is the West’s answer to Milwaukee and proof as a No. 2 seed that there were some uplifting tales to celebrate amid all of the transactional chaos and personality conflicts that tend to dominate the league’s slice of the social media universe. But the Nuggets’ own inexperience didn’t just steer me away from naming them as the Warriors’ top threat in the conference — it makes them vulnerable in Round 1 against San Antonio.It’s Houston, then, which stands as the team most capable of derailing the Warriors’ bid for a three-peat. Houston’s problem is that a costly slip to the No. 4 seed in the West dropped it into Golden State’s half of the playoff bracket. The Rockets now must face the Utah Jazz in a first-round matchup featuring the hottest (Houston went 20-5) and third-hottest (Utah went 18-7) teams since the All-Star break.For all the talk that the Rockets may benefit from a rematch with the Warriors in the conference semifinals rather than the West finals, when James Harden and Chris Paul are theoretically fresher, it may actually be Golden State that benefits the most from watching Houston and Utah beating each other up so early.The Warriors won’t refuse the help, either, because their veterans and coaches would undoubtedly argue that their regular-season grind is longer than anyone’s after four consecutive trips to the championship round. Ceaseless speculation about Durant’s potential free-agent defection to the Knicks or the Nets — yes, I’m indeed warning you now not to sleep on Brooklyn — has only added to Coach Steve Kerr’s daily challenge to keep his team focused.Another warning: Don’t forget that the Warriors tend to find that focus quickly once the calendar flips to the postseason. So many of their last 82 games were billed as uncharacteristically joyless, but Golden State is 32-6 in the playoffs since adding Durant.As long as Stephen Curry’s ankle scare earlier this week scare proves as minor as it appeared, bank on the Warriors to become the first team in 52 seasons — out of the 744 teams to reach the playoffs in that time — to make a fifth straight finals appearance. And then snag title No. 4 to cement themselves as indisputably dynastic.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressA look at where things stand in the NBA playoff picture, with four days remaining in the regular season:EASTERN CONFERENCEMiami controls its destiny, which sounds good.Miami could also be eliminated on Sunday as well.And Dwyane Wade's "One Last Dance" might end without a playoff berth.The Heat have not dropped four straight games at any point this season. It would be in their best interest for that statement to remain accurate on Sunday, when Miami — losers of three straight — gets the rare noon tip-off at Toronto. If the Heat win, they remain alive regardless of other outcomes. If they lose, it might be over.In fact, the remaining three spots in the Eastern Conference field could be claimed on Sunday. If Miami loses, and Brooklyn wins, and Detroit wins, the field will be set. If Miami wins, then the race is guaranteed to extend to at least Tuesday. And if the Heat go 3-0 in the next four days — after the game at Toronto, they host Philadelphia on Tuesday and visit Brooklyn on Wednesday — they're in the playoffs."You want to win in the playoffs, you have to learn how to win pressure games and games with expectation and consequences during the regular season," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "This can't feel any more like the playoffs right now. Our backs are fully against the wall. I just think this is an awesome experience for our team. You have to find a way to embrace this and rise to the challenge."Philadelphia cut its magic number for clinching the No. 3 spot to one by defeating Chicago on Saturday. In the only other game on the NBA schedule — intentionally made light by the schedule-makers because of the NCAA Final Four going on — Brooklyn went up one spot to sixth, passing Orlando, by holding off Milwaukee on Saturday. The Bucks rested Giannis Antetokounmpo in that one because of a calf issue.But all was not lost for the Magic.Orlando can clinch its first playoff berth since 2012 on Sunday; the Magic would get in if they win at Boston, or if Miami and Charlotte both lose. If the Magic don't beat the Celtics, then Boston would secure a top-four spot and home-court for the first round.WESTERN CONFERENCEOracle Arena will play host to more games. Probably a lot more games, to be honest, unless the Golden State Warriors get stunned in the early rounds of these playoffs.But on Sunday night, the Warriors will play a regular-season game there for the 1,936th, and last, time.And they could close that chapter at their Oakland home in style: A win over the Los Angeles Clippers in the home regular-season finale on Sunday would secure the No. 1 seed in the Western Conference race for the two-time defending NBA champions, who are moving to the brand-new Chase Center in San Francisco starting next season."We've got one more before we can seal up the No. 1 seed and take care of that goal," Warriors star Stephen Curry said. "These next three games are just about finishing the right way. I'm happy with where we are as a team, taking care of our business, and we'll figure out who we're going to play next weekend and we'll go from there."Warriors-Clippers could be the West's headline game Sunday night, though many others will have a say in the seeding races.Denver will look to sweep a home-and-home against the Trail Blazers when the teams meet in Portland. But the Nuggets are sitting Nikola Jokic, Paul Millsap and Jamal Murray to rest, which certainly helps out the Blazers.Houston will be a very big favorite over Phoenix, and the Rockets could still get to No. 2 in the West — the spot currently held by Denver, which cannot slip past No. 3. Portland would be assured of the No. 4 spot with a 3-0 finish, while Utah, San Antonio and Oklahoma City also have games that matter seeding-wise Sunday.SUNDAY'S GAMES— Miami at Toronto: Toronto is the No. 2 seed in the East and still could be No. 2 in the NBA. Miami has almost no more room for error.— San Antonio at Cleveland: This is a game that the Spurs should win, unless for some reason they want Golden State in the first round.— Oklahoma City at Minnesota: See above. Unless the Thunder want to see Golden State in the first round, they likely need to win this one.— Charlotte at Detroit: Pistons aren't as desperate as the Hornets, who need a 3-0 finish and help to get in. Detroit can still get No. 6 seed.— Brooklyn at Indiana: Nets went to 6th on Saturday, and will finish there if they win out. Pacers know they're likely going to be the 5 seed.— Phoenix at Houston: Rockets can still get to No. 2 seed if things break their way. The Suns have lost 239 games in the last four years.— Orlando at Boston: Magic will clinch their first playoff spot since 2012 with a win. Celtics will wrap up home-court for Round 1 with a win.— L.A. Clippers at Golden State: Warriors coach Steve Kerr has won at least 55 games in all five of his seasons. L.A. playing for 6th, 7th or 8th.— Denver at Portland: The resting-up Nuggets still can finish with No. 2 seed. Blazers may get to 3rd seed, trying to hold off Jazz for 4th.— Utah at L.A. Lakers: The Jazz are 31-10 in their last 41 games, yet still might not get home-court for Round 1. Extremely dangerous team.Games with no playoff implications: Dallas at Memphis, Atlanta at Milwaukee, Washington at New York, New Orleans at Sacramento.___CURRENT BRACKETFirst-round matchups if the season ended Saturday ...East: 1-Milwaukee vs. 8-Detroit, 2-Toronto vs. 7-Orlando, 3-Philadelphia vs. 6-Brooklyn, 4-Boston vs. 5-Indiana.West: 1-Golden State vs. 8-San Antonio, 2-Denver vs. 7-Oklahoma City, 3-Houston vs. 6-L.A. Clippers, 4-Portland vs. 5-Utah.___NOTE OF THE DAYNine teams had a 10-game (or longer) winning streak last season. This season, only Golden State has. Utah can get there by winning out.___QUOTE OF THE DAY"We're not satisfied." — Denver coach Michael Malone, after the Nuggets clinched home-court edge for their first playoff series since 2013.___Advertisement
Giannis or Harden for M.V.P.? Who makes the Warriors better: Steph or K.D.? Marc Stein considers these questions and more in the latest edition of his newsletter.Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate for this season’s Most Valuable Player Award.CreditCreditMorry Gash/Associated PressSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to get this newsletter from Marc Stein each week — for free? Sign up here.]As the 2018-19 regular season dribbles to a close, with just two nights and 22 of 1,230 games to go, voters leaguewide are finalizing their year-end award ballots in six major categories. I am no longer one of them, because The New York Times does not permit its reporters to vote for such awards, but it’s still a useful exercise as we take stock of the season to break down each race and who I would have picked.Official selections are due Friday night and there is simply no wrong answer when choosing between Antetokounmpo and Houston’s James Harden for the top spot on the five-man M.V.P. ballot.I have always approached this category by trying to identify who had the best overall season — based on a subjective and imprecise mixture of individual and team success — rather than paying attention to the noise about which player is most widely regarded as the game’s best … or the best two-way player … or any other such designation.So who had the better 2018-19 season? I would go (ever so narrowly) with Giannis. On top of all his individual superlatives, Antetokounmpo has been the face and chief culture-setter in the Bucks’ transformation from 44-win underachiever to the best team in the league (regular-season edition). And his candidacy gets bonus points on our scorecard because Milwaukee, for Eastern Conference supremacy, had to beat out a trio of worthy challengers who were all projected as superior before the season.Harden would be tremendously unlucky to finish second in M.V.P. balloting for the third time in five seasons, but I think that’s where this is headed. He is going to be the first scoring champion (36.1 points per game) to win the scoring title by more than eight points per game since Michael Jordan did over Dominique Wilkins in 1986-87. And I tend to agree with Houston Coach Mike D’Antoni’s contention that Harden is the only player capable of hauling the injury-riddled Rockets to 53 victories out of the 11-14 hole they were in. Harden simply has the misfortune of doing all that damage in a season that belonged to Antetokounmpo and the Bucks.It feels as though I have been writing and tweeting about Doncic and his Atlanta Hawks counterpart Trae Young all season. I suspect I will be writing about the two of them for the next decade-plus. And I’m fine with that.Doncic has had the start-to-finish stronger campaign and continued to look like a franchise player even though the Mavericks steadily increased his Year 1 workload after trading away four-fifths of their starting lineup in February. The trade brought in Kristaps Porzingis and better positions Dallas to build out a supporting cast tailored to their electric European import.Young has delivered even more impressive post-All-Star break production (24.9 points per game and 9.1 assists per game) for a scrappy Hawks team with a passable record of 23-29 since its dismal 6-23 start — and an increasingly bright future.Doncic is going to win the race, but Young overcame his own worrisome launch to make it a competition — and a rivalry that should have staying power — with his second-half surge.Doncic will be remembered as the only rookie in N.B.A. history not named Oscar Robertson to average at least 20 points, 7 rebounds and 5 assists. And Young can take solace in being almost as unfortunate as Harden if he doesn’t win the hardware. It’s quite a compliment when you think about it.Had the Indiana Pacers won 50 games in a season in which Victor Oladipo was healthy enough to play only 36, Nate McMillan would have the résumé to deny the Bucks’ Budenholzer. I’m not sure McMillan is miles off with 47 wins.Doc Rivers of the Los Angeles Clippers, like McMillan, is another victim of bad timing. Rivers hasn’t had a team overachieve like these starless Clippers since his rookie season on the bench with Orlando in 1999-2000 when the Magic won a wholly unexpected 41 games in a season billed as a placeholder before a splashy free-agent summer that ultimately landed Grant Hill and Tracy McGrady in the Magic Kingdom.But Milwaukee’s improvement in Budenholzer’s first season has been so dramatic that I can’t see how he doesn’t win his second Coach of the Year trophy. Perhaps some voters will try to convince themselves that the Bucks would be getting too much love if they vote for both Giannis for M.V.P. and Bud for this honor. But we’re talking about the league’s only 60-win team … and the runaway champions in average point differential for the season (+9.1) … and the only team in the league to rank in the top five in both offensive and defensive efficiency.Antetokounmpo is the biggest reason all that is possible. General Manager Jon Horst is likewise on an impressive run of roster moves. But Budenholzer’s impact has been undeniable.Honorable mentions, along with McMillan and Rivers: Denver’s Mike Malone, Brooklyn’s Kenny Atkinson, Portland’s Terry Stotts, Orlando’s Steve Clifford, Detroit’s Dwane Casey, Golden State’s Steve Kerr and, of course, San Antonio’s Gregg Popovich.Manu Ginobili, who just had his familiar No. 20 retired by the San Antonio Spurs, used to be synonymous with sixth man excellence to me. Ditto for Jamal Crawford.Yet I’d say Williams wears that crown now.The Clippers’ designated scorer won this award last season and stands as a huge favorite to join Crawford as the league’s only three-time winner — despite the challenge he’s getting from teammate Montrezl Harrell.Someone from the Clippers has to win some year-end recognition in light of the Cinderella season they’ve assembled. Williams makes the most sense over a quality field that also features Harrell, Indiana’s Domantas Sabonis, Brooklyn’s Spencer Dinwiddie, New Orleans’ Julius Randle and San Antonio’s Davis Bertans.As the self-proclaimed overseer of the All-Lefty Team, it pains me to snub both D’Angelo Russell of the Nets and Sacramento’s De’Aaron Fox in this category.But I’ve been saying for years that ultra-high former draft picks like Russell and second-year players like Fox are not going to be Most Improved candidates for me. Russell made a tremendous, inspiring leap to All-Star status in Brooklyn this season, but the wow factor partly stems from the fact that he fell so far short of expectations in his first three seasons. Fox, meanwhile, made the sort of Year 1-to-Year 2 leap Sacramento was counting on from someone it billed as a franchise cornerstone.No one expected Siakam to become an impact player at both ends and a borderline All-Star who helped the Raptors to post 57 wins amid the 22 games Kawhi Leonard missed for various reasons of injury and precaution.The nostalgic sap in me, truth be told, wanted to go with Minnesota’s resurgent Derrick Rose. But D-Rose only wound up being healthy enough to appear in 51 games — and as a former M.V.P. he’s more of a Comeback Player of the Year than a Most Improved candidate. The N.B.A.’s specific instructions in this category read as follows: “This award is designed to honor an up-and-coming player who has made a dramatic improvement from the previous season or seasons. It is not intended to be given to a player who has made a ‘comeback.’ ”Siakam, in other words, is perfect. He’s a former No. 27 overall pick who zoomed from role player to foundational player — either beside Leonard or in a post-Kawhi world should Leonard flee Canada in free agency this summer.Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate here, too, as is Oklahoma City’s Paul George and Indiana’s Myles Turner. But the Bucks, at least on this mythical ballot, will have to settle for two of the six top prizes.Three would have been too many. Especially since Utah’s Gobert remains such a dominant deterrent at the rim in his role as the anchor for a defense that officially ranks No. 2 but is essentially on par with Milwaukee’s.[Marc Stein’s newsletter will have the latest on the N.B.A. playoffs, which start Saturday. Sign up here.]You ask; I answer. Every week in this space, I’ll field three questions posed via email at marcstein-newsletter@nytimes.com. (Please include your first and last name, as well as the city you’re writing in from, and make sure the subject line reads “Corner Three.”)Q: Deandre Ayton hasn’t had a terrible rookie year, but it has paled in comparison to what we’ve seen from Luka Doncic and Trae Young. What do you think Ayton needs to improve on — and will he ever match Luka or Trae’s potential? — Henry Roth (Scottsdale, Ariz.)STEIN: It speaks to how far the Suns have faded from prominence that Ayton, as the No. 1 overall pick last June, got so little attention given the numbers he posted (16.3 points and 10.3 rebounds per game).The leaguewide fascination with Doncic and Young is also a factor, as you mentioned, but Ayton was overlooked in the extreme this season. Suns fans should be hoping that the snub helps motivate Ayton in Year 2, because consistency and sustained energy have been issues for him so far.From a technical standpoint, Ayton has to develop into more of a rim protector. With his mobility and athleticism, Phoenix should be able to build a defense around him. He’s not close to elite yet at that end.But it would also be unfair to ignore that Ayton was frequently forced to start alongside two other rookies on a squad that still doesn’t have a starter-level N.B.A. point guard.Q: Dirk Nowitzki hasn’t come out and said he is retiring, but everyone else seems to be saying it. At first I didn’t believe Adam Silver would have put Dirk in the All-Star Game if he didn’t have it on good authority that Dirk would soon retire, but could this actually not be his final year? It looks like Dirk’s ankle has finally recovered from surgery and he’s moving a lot better. Why not play one more season with Luka Doncic and Kristaps Porzingis and try to go out with a playoff berth? — Sharad AcharyaSTEIN: This much I can tell you: Dirk joining Dwyane Wade in the All-Star Game as a so-called “commissioner’s pick” has nothing to do with Nowitzki’s retirement plans. As Dirk stated before, during and after his trip to Charlotte, this was his All-Star swan song no matter what, even if he decided to play next season.I think there have been times since the All-Star break when an encouraged Nowitzki has imagined himself carrying on. He’s been a huge Porzingis fan for years and would naturally love to experience the Doncic/Porzingis tandem. But the reality is that season No. 21 has been a bigger challenge physically than he ever imagined.Is it really worth putting his body through the rigors of yet another nine-month ride? The case against coming back is much stronger than the case for it, which is why you’ve heard the likes of Mark Cuban and Steve Nash give interviews in recent days that make it sound as though the end is near.Q: I’d like to hear your thoughts on how Stephen Curry makes everyone else on the floor better and how that may not necessarily be the case with Kevin Durant? — Michael DortheimerSTEIN: Anyone who believes this must not have watched the last two N.B.A. finals.Steph is Golden State’s No. 1 playmaker and a true revolutionary when it comes to the way his seemingly limitless shooting range bends defenses.But there’s a reason Durant has won back-to-back M.V.P. trophies in the finals. He’s the best finisher in the game and was the best player on the floor on the game’s grandest stage two years in a row.The Warriors are 32-6 in the playoffs since Durant arrived. Who would dare say he doesn’t make all of the other Warriors better just by being out there?Curry has the ball in his hands more, which surely fuels the perception you describe, but Durant commands more double teams than any other Warrior and is a great passer both out of the post and in pick-and-roll situations. There is no shortage of coaches and scouts around the league who regard him as an elite playmaker.This is the fifth time in the Knicks’ 73-season history that they’ve had the league’s worst record. The first three times, there were fewer than 10 teams in the league: 1960-61 (21-58 in an eight-team league), 1962-63 (21-59 in a nine-team league) and 1964-65 (22-58 in a nine-team league). The Knicks were also at the bottom of a 23-team league in 1985-86 at 23-59. At 16-64 so far this season, the Knicks will post the lowest win total in franchise history unless they win at least one of their final two games. Utah’s Rudy Gobert is poised to finish this season with more dunks than anyone else, with 301 dunks to Antetokounmpo’s 279 for Milwaukee. Gobert, though, has played in all 80 of Utah’s games this season. Antetokounmpo has missed 12 of the Bucks’ 81 games to date. Antetokounmpo’s Bucks finished 18th in defensive rating last season. They’ve climbed 17 spots this season to rank No. 1 overall entering Tuesday’s play, allowing 104.8 points per 100 possessions. Jason Terry’s 590 regular-season games alongside Dirk are the most of any teammate in Nowitzki’s 21 seasons in Dallas. J.J. Barea ranks second (and No. 1 among active Mavericks) with 543 regular-season games. The Mavericks say Nowitzki has had 197 teammates.This is the 39th consecutive season, according to the peerless data maintained by Basketball-Reference.com, during which the average height of N.B.A. players is 6-foot-7. The last season that featured a different figure was 1979-80, when the average height of N.B.A. players was 6-foot-6.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Kennard scored 27 points off the bench and the postseason-bound Detroit Pistons closed out their regular season finale by walloping the host New York Knicks 115-89 on Wednesday.The Pistons (41-41) qualified for the Eastern Conference playoffs for just the second time since the 2009-10 season. They were swept by Cleveland in the opening round of the 2015-16 playoffs.Detroit will be the No. 8 seed and face top-seeded Milwaukee in the first round.Kennard's point total was one shy of his career high. Reggie Jackson had 21 points and Andre Drummond supplied 20 points and 18 rebounds for Detroit. Wayne Ellington tossed in 12 points, all on 3-point makes.Heat 113, Nets 94Dwyane Wade ended his storied career with a triple-double of 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists as visiting Miami was dealt a loss to Brooklyn, which clinched sixth place in the Eastern Conference.The Nets honored Wade with a video tribute in pregame introductions by highlighting some of his notable shots against them over the course of a 16-year career while the text on the screen read "Thanks for the Memories."With longtime friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony sitting courtside, Wade recorded his fifth career triple-double in his 1,054th regular-season game since entering the league as the fifth overall pick out of Marquette in 2003.Spurs 105, Mavericks 94LaMarcus Aldridge poured in 34 points and totaled 16 rebounds to help propel San Antonio to a resounding win over visiting Dallas in the regular-season finale for both teams.It was also the final game in the 21-year career of Dallas forward Dirk Nowitzki, who led Dallas with 20 points and pulled down 10 rebounds in 31 minutes of play before leaving the court for the final time with 47 seconds remaining.The win was San Antonio's third straight and -- combined with Oklahoma City's win over Milwaukee -- earned the Spurs the seventh seed in the NBA playoffs, where they will face the Denver Nuggets. Dallas, playing the second game of an emotional home-road back-to-back, had a two-game winning streak snapped and they will miss the postseason for the third straight season.Trail Blazers 136, Kings 131Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a season-high 37 points to lift Portland to a come-from-behind victory over visiting Sacramento.Skal Labissiere added 29 points and 15 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who trailed by as many as 28 points in the first half.Jake Layman, Meyers Leonard and Gary Trent Jr. scored 19 points apiece for Portland (53-29), which gained the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference and will face No. 6 Oklahoma City (49-33) in the first round of the playoffs.Nuggets 99, Timberwolves 95Jamal Murray hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 31.5 seconds left, and host Denver scored the final 15 points of the game to beat Minnesota to earn the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference.Nikola Jokic finished with 29 points and 14 rebounds and Murray scored 17 for Denver. The Nuggets (54-28) will play the San Antonio Spurs in the first round of the playoffs.Andrew Wiggins scored 25 points, Gorgui Dieng had 18 points and 11 rebounds and Cameron Reynolds added 19 points off the bench for the short-handed Timberwolves (36-46).Clippers 143, Jazz 137 (OT)With their respective playoff spots locked, Los Angeles and Utah ended their regular seasons in overtime, where the Clippers won to end a three-game losing streak.Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead the Clippers. Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Lou Williams scored 15 off the bench.Utah rookie Grayson Allen scored a career-high 40 points and Georges Niang scored a career-best 24 off the bench.Thunder 127, Bucks 116Dennis Schroder scored 32 points to help Oklahoma City earn the No. 6 seed in the Western Conference with a win at Milwaukee.The Bucks, who had already sealed the top seed in the Eastern Conference coming into the game, sat three starters -- Giannis Antetokounmpo, Eric Bledsoe and Brook Lopez -- to rest them for the playoffs.Milwaukee (60-22) will start the playoffs against the eighth-seeded Detroit Pistons (41-41). The Thunder (49-33) will open the playoffs against the third-seeded Portland Trail Blazers (53-29).Pacers 135, Hawks 134Edmond Sumner made three free throws with 0.3 seconds remaining to lift Indiana to a road win over Atlanta in the final regular-season game for both teams.Atlanta finished the season with a 29-53 record while Indiana (48-34) heads into the playoffs winners of only four of its last 13 games.The fifth-place Pacers will oppose the fourth-place Boston Celtics (49-33) in the first round of the Eastern Conference postseason.Magic 122, Hornets 114Terrence Ross came off the bench to score a season-high 35 points, and playoff-bound Orlando ended Charlotte's season.Ross scored 19 of his points in the first half, when the Magic led by as many as 13. He finished 12 of 19 from the field and 6 of 10 from 3-point range. Ross' performance overshadowed a 43-point explosion by Charlotte's Kemba Walker in the defeat.The Magic (42-40) remained the No. 7 seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs with the victory, and will face second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs.Grizzlies 132, Warriors 117Memphis dizzied visiting Golden State in the regular-season finale for both teams, parlaying a remarkable 86-point first half into a shocking win.The loss had no bearing on the playoff seeding for the Warriors (57-25). The two-time defending champions enter the postseason as the top seed in the Western Conference and they will open the playoffs against the No. 8 seed, the Los Angeles Clippers, who defeated the Utah Jazz, 143-137, in overtime Wednesday.The win allowed the Grizzlies (33-49) to avoid what would have been a second straight season of at least 50 losses. Rookie Jevon Carter scored 19 of his career-high 32 points in the first half, when the Grizzlies ran off to an 86-68 lead.76ers 125, Bulls 109Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points and Boban Marjanovic added 18 to lift host Philadelphia over Chicago.T.J. McConnell tied his career-high with 18, Zhaire Smith contributed 17 and Greg Monroe had 14 for the Sixers, who completed their regular season with a 51-31 record and the No. 3 playoff seed in the Eastern Conference. The Sixers finished 31-10 at home.The Sixers were extremely short-handed as numerous key players were held out for precautionary reasons as the playoffs are about to begin. All-Star center Joel Embiid, All-Star guard Ben Simmons, guard JJ Redick, forward Jimmy Butler and forward Tobias Harris were all held out.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byStars being added to Eastern Conference powerhouses drew most of the headlines, but there were other moves that could prove significant.By Benjamin HoffmanN.B.A. fans can be forgiven for being distracted by shiny objects. And there are few objects shinier than a star who is being added to a playoff contender.But even though the powerhouses of the Eastern Conference went to war over which team could add the biggest piece, it is worth taking a look at some under-the-radar moves that could prove significant this season or in the near future. Amid the flurry of moves this week, these three deals stood out as opportunities for players to thrive in situations far more advantageous to their careers than where they had been, which could end up paying significant dividends to the teams that acquired them.The Magic are trading Jonathon Simmons, a first-round pick and a second-round pick to the Philadelphia 76ers for Fultz, according to The Athletic.Why it matters: The very public breakdown of Fultz’s career has made any move involving him relevant. A consensus No. 1 pick in the 2017 draft after a terrific freshman season at Washington, Fultz was viewed by Philadelphia as the endgame of the team’s long-running Process. The Sixers traded the No. 3 pick in that draft (which ended up being Jayson Tatum) and a future first-round pick (likely to be Sacramento’s pick in this year’s draft) to Boston so they could move up two spots to get him.Things fell apart almost immediately. Fultz’s shooting form went from quirky to horrendous, debates emerged as to whether he had been injured or had simply lost his confidence, and he played just 14 games last season and 19 this season before shutting down with a diagnosis of thoracic outlet syndrome.No one knows what Fultz is capable of, but it had become painfully obvious that he was not going to have the opportunity to play his way through his problems with the Sixers, a team that believes it has a legitimate chance of winning the East this year.In Orlando, the pressure should be turned down considerably. The team values length, and while Fultz is a modest 6-foot-4, he has a seven-foot wingspan and has at times shown flashes of brilliance, including during a game last April in which he became the first teenager to officially record a triple-double in the N.B.A.In this week’s trade, Philadelphia managed to land a few picks to replace what it gave up to be able to draft Fultz. But Simmons is primarily filler to make the trade work, and the move is mostly about clearing an unproductive player off the Sixers’ roster and letting him try to find a better situation elsewhere. As Fultz looks to avoid joining Anthony Bennett and LaRue Martin as the biggest busts to be taken with the No. 1 overall pick, Orlando seems as good of a place as any to get started.The Kings traded Justin Jackson and Zach Randolph to the Dallas Mavericks for Barnes.Why it matters: The Kings entered Thursday night’s games as the No. 9 seed in the West, one and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers and one game ahead of the Los Angeles Lakers. With the Clippers having just traded Tobias Harris, the door is open for Sacramento to secure its first playoff spot since 2006.Sacramento plays extraordinarily fast, partly as a result of repeatedly using lineups with three guards, but they play at a significant size disadvantage.Enter Barnes, a 6-8 small forward who gives the team a bigger body without requiring the offense to slow down all that much.It’s hard to remember after three productive-if-uninspiring seasons in Dallas, but Barnes was once a member of Golden State’s ultrafluid Death Lineup, and if he can get back to a 3-and-D style of play, he could be a perfect addition to the Kings’ starting five, though that does not mean the deal is without drawbacks.First and foremost, Barnes has been used to a high-usage role in Dallas, and that will not be available to him in Sacramento, a team with an offensive pecking order that will make him a third option at best. He also has let his defense slide to the point where he was a net negative on the court for Dallas. The Kings will probably be on the hook for his $25.1 million player option next year, and if he isn’t on board to shift his style of play, he could make the team worse.All of that said, Barnes is still just 26, and after winning a championship in his third season, and 73 regular-season games in his fourth year, he has not sniffed the playoffs since. A return to a relevant team could unlock the complementary player who helped Golden State soar, and for a franchise that has often been accused of sabotaging itself, this is a real attempt to make the team better.The Bulls traded Jabari Parker and Bobby Portis to the Washington Wizards for Porter. Why it matters: Neither team is going anywhere this season, but Chicago is trying to set up the team’s future by acquiring Porter, a player with loads of potential — and an enormous contract — who has sometimes failed to click in Washington.Porter, a 25-year-old forward who has plenty of size at 6-8, has seen his statistics decline this season, at least in part because of the overall decline of the Wizards. But at his best, he is capable of shooting better than 40 percent from 3-point range while also contributing rebounding and passing. For an example of why Chicago would take a flier on a frustrating player owed a great deal of money, look no further than one of the players he was traded for: Parker. Last off-season, the Bulls had money to spend and wanted to make a free-agent splash. Parker, a player known as much for being injury prone as for being defense-averse, was the best they could do. In Porter they pick up a young player with plenty of potential who is owed a little more than $27 million next season and has a player option of a bit less than $28.5 million in 2020-21. That is probably better than what Chicago could get on the open market, which makes it worth saying goodbye to Portis, a decent rotation player who was mostly wasted on a team that is several big pieces away from contention.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballThe rare N.B.A. star willing to lean into his role as a villain, Butler, briefly back in the city he scorned, is ready to absorb fans’ anger.By Marc SteinJimmy Butler knows what’s coming on Saturday night in Minneapolis. He understands, relishes and even encourages the looming prospect of the chilliest welcome any visiting N.B.A. player is bound to receive this season.“They’re going to boo me,” Butler said of the Minnesota fans who watched him force his way out of town via a trade to the Philadelphia 76ers in November — months after Butler led the woebegone Timberwolves to their first playoff berth in 14 seasons.“I would boo me, too. I’m not going to lie to you.”Now a key member of what is widely regarded as the most potent starting lineup on the N.B.A. map outside of Golden State, Butler will be back at Target Center for the first time since the trade turmoil that captivated the league for the first two months of the season.Butler insisted he was unfazed by what awaited him, and went on to suggest that a number of his Philadelphia colleagues, as well as some longtime friends who plan to be in attendance, will partake in the inevitable hostilities.“I might actually join in on the boos,” Butler said.Those who have spent any time around the rugged swingman surely don’t doubt it. At a time when N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver openly frets about player happiness — and when standouts such as Boston’s Kyrie Irving and Golden State’s Kevin Durant routinely rail against the approach of some of the news media — Butler is the rare star who savors the game’s edgy side and has embraced his portrayal as a villain.“I love it,” Butler said in a phone interview, repeating the phrase three times — including once with a profanity for emphasis. “Who wants to be loved all the time?“It’s O.K. It’s fine. I don’t need everybody to like me. I know who I am. I can’t say that enough. I know what I’m about. I know where my heart is. People will say, ‘He’s this way, or he’s that way,’ but nobody knows except for the people around me every day. Ask them and they’ll tell you differently.”Elton Brand, the 76ers’ general manager, certainly falls within that category, describing Butler as “a caring person” who has quickly endeared himself “not only to his teammates but to our whole business operations staff and in the community.”As a first-year general manager, Brand had his own reservations before going through with the first major move of his tenure, having watched chaos engulf the Timberwolves from afar — with no shortage of the noise coming from Butler himself after news leaked of the mid-September trade request he made in private.But when Brand did his research, consulting former coaches and executives who had worked with Butler, along with former players he knew well who had firsthand knowledge, such as Nazr Mohammed and Mike Dunleavy Jr., he received little in the way of dissenting feedback.“Even with the story that was reported, that wasn’t a big deal,” Brand said, referring to an ESPN report in January that asserted Butler “aggressively challenged” Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown. “He didn’t curse. He wasn’t loud. It was his reputation following him.”Butler, 29, admitted in a recent interview with Yahoo Sports’s Chris Haynes that he is a “confrontational” teammate, but that he is also trying to be more selective in showing his blunt nature as he gets older. It should be noted that, as Brand found, Butler has also been a largely popular teammate in his stints with the Chicago Bulls and Team U.S.A. — and, frankly, with numerous Timberwolves apart from the All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.Butler took a hit in some precincts after informing the since-fired coach with whom he’s so closely associated — Tom Thibodeau — that he was no longer interested in trying to nurture Towns and Andrew Wiggins and wanted out of Minnesota. One example of the damage: Butler is one of the top 12 players in the Eastern Conference, but East coaches snubbed him as a reserve for the All-Star Game in February.Yet Butler plays on, insisting he would “do nothing over” in Minnesota and reveling in the knowledge that for the first time in his career, he’s on a team capable of getting to the N.B.A. finals.“I will tell you that we’ve got a lot of talent,” Butler said.The Sixers haven’t established the required consistency to earn the label of East favorites, going 11-6 since the All-Star break with middling placement in both offensive (18th) and defensive (12th) efficiency in that span. Butler, though, is doing what he can to make it work, sacrificing in a manner that would seem to invalidate some of the criticism.Philadelphia followed its trade for Butler on Nov. 12 by acquiring Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers on Feb. 6, giving Brown two All-Star-caliber players to team with the dynamic duo of Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons and the shooter extraordinaire J.J. Redick. In the first 20 games since, when those five players share the floor, Butler has scaled back more than anyone, taking fewer shots (46) than the other four — with Embiid by far in the lead (95 shots).Of course, in fourth quarters, Butler has emerged as the most reliable offensive option of the quintet, shooting 12 for 18 when all five play together, highlighted by last week’s game-winning jumper against Boston after the Celtics had won six of the teams’ seven previous meetings. The natural drop in Butler’s per-game averages this season, playing for such a loaded team, tends to overshadow the fact that he still ranks 16th in the league in a category (Real Plus-Minus) strongly associated with team success.“He’s a special talent at closing and winning games — and not just offensively,” Brand said. “He’s just a winner.”An indication of Butler’s true standing in the game will come July 1, when he becomes an unrestricted free agent for the first time. Brand has said repeatedly that he hopes to keep Philadelphia’s new core four together, but Butler is expected to attract serious interest from both Los Angeles teams as well as the Nets. The Clippers’ special adviser Jerry West, to name one prominent fan, is said to be a longtime admirer of Butler’s two-way impact.Not that Butler is prepared to discuss much about the future. He brushed off free-agency talk in our conversation and claimed that he didn’t even know Minnesota was on this week’s calendar until I told him.He stuck mostly to peripheral subjects. Those include Butler’s devotion to playing dominoes and Uno, his friendship with “the best soccer player in the world” — Paris St.-Germain’s Brazilian star Neymar — and the trusty American football he travels around with. Butler said he plans to toss the football with other 76ers with greater regularity during the playoffs.“I’m telling you — it takes away some of that pressure,” Butler said.Thibodeau still lives in Minneapolis in the wake of his Jan. 6 firing, but politely declined to comment about Butler’s visit. Butler, for his part, continues to refer to Thibodeau as “my guy.” He said they maintained regular contact.Although Butler remains unwilling to dig deeply into the reasons he pushed so hard for an exit so soon after the dramatic impact he had in his lone full season with the Wolves, give him this: He is prepared to take whatever pent-up frustration has been stored up for him in the Twin Cities.Rather than ask for forgiveness from the locals, or even civility, Butler said: “I did what I did. I’m cool with it. I’m in a good place.”He has only one request for the basketball public: Pick someone else to win the East besides the up-and-down Sixers.“Don’t pick us,” Butler said. “I hope people say we’re going to lose in the first round. I don’t want anybody to think we’re that good because I think it makes us play a little bit harder.”Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaNEW ORLEANS — The New Orleans Pelicans have scuffled along for years as one of the N.B.A.’s worker-bee franchises, a respectable team but not one that has vied for championships. They lose as often as they win and play their home games in an arena called the Smoothie King Center, where a big-beaked mascot named Pierre roams the crowd.But in recent seasons, the team has employed someone even more special: Anthony Davis, a gifted center and one of the best players in the league. Davis has a pterodactyl-length wingspan and a unibrow, which has become as much a part of his persona as his skyscraping dunks. Fans know him as “The Brow,” as if he were a superhero who draws strength from his facial hair.New Orleans used to love him for it — until two weeks ago, when he shook the league and asked the Pelicans to trade him. The Pelicans, in return, made a bold move of their own: They refused to let him go, at least not yet.Now Davis and New Orleans are stuck together in basketball purgatory — “It definitely is different,” said Jrue Holiday, the team’s starting point guard — and the city’s long-suffering sports fans can only wonder: What do we do now?“It’s not a new thing that guys demand to be traded,” Alvin Gentry, the Pelicans coach, said in an interview, “but I thought the timing of it kind of put everybody in a tough situation.”It has been a soul-crushing few weeks for sports fans here. They absorbed a major blow last month when the New Orleans Saints, who are as much a tent revival as football team, lost to the Los Angeles Rams in the N.F.L. playoffs after a missed call by the referees, which may have cost the Saints a trip to the Super Bowl.A week later, Davis’s agent, Rich Paul, announced publicly that Davis wanted out of New Orleans and would not sign a contract extension.“Now that he’s going to leave, I’m excited to see what we can get for him,” said Ryan Bergeron, a 22-year-old legal assistant from New Orleans who is a regular at Pelicans games. Like many fans, Bergeron owns one of Davis’s replica jerseys — which he plans to keep in the back of his closet.“I think we’ll be better off without him,” Bergeron said.Not so long ago, Davis was throwing beads from a float as an honorary grand marshal at a Mardi Gras parade. But the city’s feelings toward him have curdled like week-old étouffée.On Friday night, when Davis played in his first home game for the Pelicans since his trade request, images of him were cut from a highlight package that played on the arena’s oversize video screens. The crowd showered him with boos that drowned out scattered cheers. As if to amplify his value while sticking it to those who expressed their displeasure, Davis collected 32 points and 9 rebounds.“It’s life, man,” Davis said of his frosty reception. “Some people aren’t going to like you.”New Orleans has dealt with its share of hardwood hardship. Franchises have come and gone, along with star players. The New Orleans Buccaneers were a charter member of the American Basketball Association from 1967 to 1970, but then relocated to Memphis. The New Orleans Jazz, founded as an N.B.A. expansion franchise in 1974, had a similarly abbreviated run before decamping for Utah in 1979.The N.B.A. returned to New Orleans in 2002 — back when the team was known as the Hornets — and eventually found a franchise star in point guard Chris Paul, who led the team to three playoff appearances before he, too, told management before the start of the 2011-12 season that he would not sign a contract extension. New Orleans traded him to the Los Angeles Clippers, then finished with the worst record in the Western Conference.But from the rubble of player discontent sprang fresh life in 2012: Tom Benson, then the owner of the Saints, bought the franchise, and the team, soon to be rebranded as the Pelicans, secured the top pick in the draft. (After Benson died last year, the ownership of both franchises was transferred to his wife, Gayle.) New Orleans used that pick on Davis, a freshman center who had just led Kentucky to an N.C.A.A. championship.Now in his seventh season, Davis is a six-time All-Star who was averaging 29 points and 13.3 rebounds entering Monday. But he has been prone to injury, and he has never led the Pelicans on a deep playoff run. The organization has made missteps — Exhibit A: re-signing Omer Asik, a Turkish forward, to a $58 million deal in 2015 — but that does not make them unique among N.B.A. teams; they are trying to compete in one of the league’s smallest markets when stars are generally gravitating toward flashier and more well-established franchises.Last season, the Pelicans were playing well behind Davis and DeMarcus Cousins, a perennial All-Star whom the team had acquired through a trade in 2017. But Cousins tore his Achilles’ tendon and missed the playoffs. Without him, the Pelicans still swept the Portland Trail Blazers in their first-round series before losing to the Golden State Warriors in the conference semifinals.Still another problem was brewing for the Pelicans. In September, Davis changed agents and hired Paul, who is known for his close relationship with LeBron James, the Los Angeles Lakers’ star forward.Paul’s tactics with the Pelicans in recent weeks in pursuit of a trade for Davis were unconventional. Tom Penn, a former executive with the Trail Blazers and an analyst for NBA TV, said in a telephone interview that most agents try to work with team executives behind the scenes. Paul, on the other hand, “threw a Molotov cocktail in the middle of the room,” Penn said.It became a public spectacle, and the Pelicans responded by releasing a statement in which they said they would do a deal “on our own terms and our own timeline.” Sure enough, they rebuffed the Lakers — one of Davis’s preferred trade destinations — in their attempts to pry Davis loose.Once Thursday’s trade deadline passed, the Pelicans landed a final jab by tweeting an emoji of an hourglass that had run out.Aside from avoiding the public-relations pitfalls of being stuck with a star who no longer wants to be there, the Pelicans had little incentive to make a deal ahead of the trade deadline. More teams will be better positioned to make offers for Davis in the off-season, and the Pelicans’ haul in exchange for him could be huge.New Orleans also showed some pluck. At a time when some players are seizing greater power to determine the arc of their careers, the Pelicans decided that they would trade Davis when they are ready.Now, with Davis tethered to them for the remainder of the season — he is a lottery ticket they will wait to cash — the Pelicans are searching for a way forward.“What we’re trying to do is get back to normal,” said Gentry, the team’s coach, “and what our new normal is — we haven’t quite figured it out yet.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinThe Knicks’ sudden trade sending Kristaps Porzingis, their franchise player, to the Dallas Mavericks last week has raised a swirl of questions about the team’s motivations.Good news: We have answers.Porzingis was abruptly dispatched to Dallas last Thursday, along with Tim Hardaway Jr., Courtney Lee and Trey Burke, for guard Dennis Smith Jr., two future first-round picks and the sizable expiring contracts of DeAndre Jordan and Wes Matthews.Let’s dig into six of the biggest curiosities surrounding the departure of the Knicks’ beloved No. 6.Steve Mills, the Knicks’ president, cited worries that Porzingis was growing detached from the organization as a key factor in the team’s decision to seek out trades for the best big man it has seen since Patrick Ewing.It turns out that the Knicks spent much of January quietly canvassing the league for potential Porzingis deals, according to a person familiar with the talks who was not authorized to discuss them publicly. They tried — unsuccessfully — to trade for untouchables such as Utah’s Donovan Mitchell and Sacramento’s De’Aaron Fox.But the Knicks knew all along that the Mavericks had the wherewithal to meet many of their trade objectives and, just as crucially, that Dallas was generally unfazed by the torn anterior cruciate ligament Porzingis suffered last February.In Smith, Dallas had a recent top-10 pick to offer. The Mavericks also proved willing to give up two future first-round draft picks in a Porzingis deal while absorbing the contracts of Hardaway and Lee. The Knicks were able to shed both of those deals because Dallas had two huge expiring contracts to send back (Jordan and Matthews) and had long been fond of Hardaway despite his defensive deficiencies.Perhaps you are a Smith skeptic. Or just a Knicks skeptic. Those are both understandable positions. But a trade that returns three quality assets and will create the kind of salary-cap space this summer that the Knicks must have to chase Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving in free agency is no salary dump.It is a gamble, true, but it is also an undeniable haul.The Mavericks’ interest in Porzingis has been an open secret to the Knicks for years. One Mavericks official estimated that Dallas approached the Knicks “about a hundred times” before the team ever showed any willingness to discuss trading him.The Knicks, for their part, had expressed interest in Smith all season. The teams, according to two people with knowledge of their talks, also had been discussing a Hardaway-for-Matthews trade for weeks before Jan. 28, which both sides pinpoint as the first date the Knicks were open to discussing a Porzingis blockbuster.The parties, as a result, did not need long to build a trade framework.It certainly did not hurt that the Mavericks made their lone Madison Square Garden appearance of the season two nights later. Knicks General Manager Scott Perry and his Mavericks counterpart, Donnie Nelson, met before the game in a Garden hallway before taking their huddle behind closed doors and summoning Mills.By night’s end, Smith had registered a triple-double in a resounding Dallas victory and the Mavericks were offering to seal the Porzingis deal by handshake, since Mark Cuban, the Dallas owner, was in the building. The Knicks, however, asked for more time.The reason? Porzingis and his brother Janis, the player’s agent, had requested a Thursday morning meeting.When asked at a Monday news conference to address his reported desire to be traded, Porzingis passed.“I would rather just focus on what’s ahead of me than looking back,” Porzingis said.A person with knowledge of the meeting, however, said it was requested by the Porzingis brothers — after they had canceled a similar meeting earlier in January — and that it lasted less than five minutes. Later in the day, according to the person, Janis Porzingis gave the Knicks a list of four teams he and Kristaps had deemed acceptable trade destinations.The Nets and the Los Angeles Clippers were among those four teams, but Dallas was not. The Knicks, meanwhile, were told Porzingis was prepared to leave the team and continue his knee rehabilitation in Spain if he was not moved by Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline.It was not long after receiving the four-team list that the Knicks notified the Mavericks they would do the deal.The Knicks were convinced that no team besides Dallas would take the Hardaway and Lee contracts and package a player of Smith’s caliber with first-round draft picks.The Knicks also were fearful that letting the Dallas offer linger, or engaging other teams in the week leading up to the trade deadline, would enable the Porzingis camp to scare off the Mavericks or other potential suitors by threatening to sign long-term only with teams like the Nets or the Clippers.In a radio interview Monday with 105.3 FM in Dallas, Cuban said, “Shopping a deal is a lot more complicated than it sounds.”Risky as it would be given his uncertain health, Porzingis has the option to play next season for a mere $4.5 million and become an unrestricted free agent in July 2020. The Knicks’ mounting fears that he would exercise that option, or say he was only willing to sign a one-year deal with a player option in Year 2, are largely what convinced team officials they had to pursue trades.But the Mavericks are one of those dice-rolling teams, like Boston, Houston and most recently Oklahoma City when it traded for Paul George, that bet on themselves in these situations. Dallas is already expressing confidence it can get Porzingis’s signature on a five-year, $158 million contract this summer.Porzingis has pre-existing relationships with Dirk Nowitzki and Luka Doncic, the Mavericks’ rising star from Slovenia. And neither Mavericks Coach Rick Carlisle nor Cuban has been bashful about comparing a Doncic/Porzingis partnership to the Nowitzki/Steve Nash duo that was busted up after just six seasons. Nash was allowed to sign with Phoenix in July 2004, after which both Nowitzki and Nash won most valuable player honors separately.“It was my mistake to not keep Dirk and Steve together longer,” Cuban said Monday night. “I won’t make the same mistake with Luka and K.P.”It is simply not possible to answer this today. Not without knowing, for starters, how the Knicks will fare in free agency — and how Porzingis will bounce back from his knee injury.But I can tell you this: In my discussions with rival team executives, I have heard from many more who praise the trade than those who question how much the Knicks received in return.Also: The threat of the Knicks persuading Durant to leave one of the most dominant teams in league history, based on the latest vibes emanating from the Bay Area, has never felt more real to the Warriors themselves.The Knicks have received considerable criticism for smearing Porzingis on his way out. And let’s face it: Believe-it-when-I-see-it scoffing at the notion that the game’s biggest names would be willing to play for the Knicks, when they are still owned and operated by James Dolan, is fully expected given how the last two decades have gone since the Knicks’ trip to the N.B.A. finals in 1999.Yet there is far more to like than dislike about the deal, even if Porzingis becomes everything Dallas dreams he can be. The Knicks move forward with massive financial flexibility and a young core of Smith, Kevin Knox, Allonzo Trier and Frank Ntilikina, as well as seven first-round picks over the next five years — chips they can either build around or offer in trades for someone starry like Anthony Davis.Processing all that should bring Knicks-loving New Yorkers some winter warmth.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballThe Mavericks rookie is drawing LeBron James comparisons and has “fast-forwarded” his team’s decision-making.By Marc SteinDALLAS — Dirk Nowitzki has seen many things in his 21 seasons with the Dallas Mavericks. What he had never seen, until last month, was a fellow Maverick who could attract nearly two dozen autograph seekers in subzero temperatures to greet the team bus on a Thursday morning in Detroit.Luka Doncic did just that in the 2 a.m. hour of Jan. 31, as the Mavericks pulled into a hotel adjacent to the world headquarters of General Motors, on the unglamorous end of a back-to-back set that began in New York.It is likewise safe to presume that none of Nowitzki’s other 197 teammates over two decades in Dallas could have inspired what happened mere hours later. In a swift-moving blockbuster trade, Dallas acquired Kristaps Porzingis from the Knicks to serve as Doncic’s sidekick, with Mavericks General Manager Donnie Nelson openly admitting that he pushed for the deal because Doncic has “fast-forwarded a lot of our decision-making.”These are the tales from just one day, albeit maybe the wildest day, of what Nowitzki frequently refers to as Lukamania.“When we get to cities now, even late at night, there are so many people waiting with things for him to sign that it’s almost like we’re the Warriors,” Nowitzki said. “Lukamania is real. We’re living it every day.”[Another Rookie: The Perimeter Can’t Protect You From Mitchell Robinson]This week brings another milestone for Doncic, who celebrates his 20th birthday on Thursday. He is averaging 20.9 points, 7.2 rebounds and 5.7 assists through 56 games and is responsible for four of the five triple-doubles in N.B.A. history recorded by teenagers. It is a start that has quickly validated Nelson’s long-held belief that Doncic possessed superstar potential.The only other rookie in league history to hit those levels over a full season was Oscar Robertson in 1960-61.“I love, love, love guys that can pass the ball,” Nelson said, prioritizing Doncic’s ability to run a team at 6 feet 7 inches over the fact he is already known for having the league’s second-most-feared step-back jump shot, behind only James Harden’s.“I knew I could play over here,” Doncic said, “but it’s better than I expected, for sure.”The gaudy numbers and worldwide interest in his exploits enabled Doncic to amass more than four million votes in N.B.A. All-Star balloting, trailing only LeBron James and Giannis Antetokounmpo. Doncic, in other words, finished higher in leaguewide balloting than Michael Jordan (fifth) did as a rookie. Higher, too, than James (13th) and even Yao Ming, who could manage only the fourth-highest total in 2003 despite the considerable voting might of Yao’s native China.Doncic’s instant production has also validated every pundit who insisted, amid no shortage of skepticism, that concerns about Doncic’s athleticism and corresponding ability to deal with the length of N.B.A. defenders were folly given the rampant success he achieved both at the club (Real Madrid) and national team (Slovenia) levels as an 18-year-old. In the process, Doncic has unleashed a torrent of second-guessing upon the teams (Phoenix, Sacramento and Atlanta) that let him slip to the Mavericks. Yet Doncic insists his maiden N.B.A. season, which appears destined to be christened with the league’s rookie of the year trophy, has not been as easy it looks.The Mavericks, you see, were 26-34 entering Wednesday night’s home date with Indiana and likely to miss the playoffs for a third consecutive season. They have traded away all four of Doncic’s projected fellow starters (Dennis Smith Jr., DeAndre Jordan, Wes Matthews and Harrison Barnes) in deals that netted Porzingis and roughly $30 million in salary-cap space, neither of which can help the team this season.It is the first time in Doncic’s life, since he took up basketball at age 7, that he has experienced losing. One hint of how well he’s coping with it: Doncic has pulled his jersey apart in frustration after a play gone awry — twice.“It’s harder than people think,” Doncic said.“He’s a winner — he won everything in Europe,” Juancho Hernangomez of the Denver Nuggets said. “So every time he loses, he gets so mad.”Hernangomez has been observing Doncic from close range for years, both on the floor — since Doncic played alongside Hernangomez’s brother, Charlotte’s Willy Hernangomez, at Real Madrid — and through their shared WhatsApp chat room, which houses various European players fond of the popular video game Fortnite. But Mavericks officials are not worried about a scouting report from a friend that paints Doncic as a sore loser.“He doesn’t handle losing well — I know that for a fact,” Dallas Coach Rick Carlisle said. “But I don’t handle losing well, either.”As recently as May 15, Mavericks executives were worried about Doncic — big time. Having known for more than a year that they wanted to draft him if they had the chance, team officials were crestfallen in Chicago when Dallas slipped from a projected No. 3 in that night’s draft lottery to No. 5. “It was devastating for us,” Nelson said. “We thought our chance to get him was gone because it’s really hard to trade up in the lottery.” Nowitzki betrayed a public hint of the organization’s disappointment when he tweeted this reaction: “Of course.”To move up high enough, Dallas ultimately had to persuade the Atlanta Hawks to surrender the No. 3 overall pick. It cost Dallas both the No. 5 pick, which Atlanta used to take Trae Young, as well as the Mavericks’ top pick in the 2019 draft. But the Dallas owner, Mark Cuban, blessed the deal, even at that price, because Nelson lobbied so hard for it. Five years earlier, during the 2013 draft, Nelson and his longtime international scout, Tony Ronzone, pushed for the Mavericks to use the No. 13 pick on a little-known Greek teenager named Giannis Antetokounmpo. Cuban wouldn’t allow it, given that Antetokounmpo, unlike Doncic, was mostly a mystery — and promptly regretted it as Antetokounmpo blossomed into a star in Milwaukee.So this time, after the disappointment of the lottery, Cuban blessed Nelson to do whatever it took to land Doncic. What the team got was the son of a former Slovene pro — Sasa Doncic — and a veteran of three full seasons in the EuroLeague and Spain’s La Liga with Real Madrid after Luka Doncic made his pro debut at 16.To the Mavericks’ delight, Doncic was more N.B.A.-ready than they ever dreamed — as his 16-for-29 shooting in the final three minutes of one-possession games this season would suggest. As Carlisle put it: “Unique background, unique skill set, unique body type.”“I hesitate to throw out names like LeBron James and Magic Johnson, who have been do-everything kind of stars, but it’s pretty clear now that Luka has many of those same traits and has proven that he can do a lot of those things,” Carlisle said. “He has deceptive size, strength and quickness — and an understanding beyond his years on how to use his body to make plays and draw fouls.”Carlisle is hardly alone in making such lofty comparisons. Miami’s Dwyane Wade, one of the league’s foremost James experts after their four seasons together with the Heat, has called Doncic’s passing “LeBron-like.” Los Angeles Clippers Coach Doc Rivers said of Doncic: “He’s my favorite player to watch almost, and not talking just rookies. First of all, he plays with a great joy — I love that. And he’s just so advanced in the way he plays. The sky’s the limit for him. Wait until he gets in shape.”Rivers was laughing when he tacked on that last line, but he did hit on a prime area of Year 1 concern with Doncic — conditioning.The Mavericks and Doncic’s representatives, headed by the longtime N.B.A. agent Bill Duffy, agreed shortly after the draft to impose as much rest on Doncic as possible from July through September after a nonstop run at the highest levels of international basketball for nearly a year. Doncic thus began the season heavier than his listed weight of 218 and has absorbed jibes about his diet ever since.But Mavericks officials are pleased with the gradual changes in Doncic’s dietary habits. At the team’s behest, Doncic hired a chef in December to prepare a number of meals for pregame and off-night consumption. Doncic has also begun working fresh juices into his routine.In Madrid, Doncic lived for the past two and a half years with his mother, Mirjam Poterbin, who raised Doncic while running two beauty salons in Ljubljana. (Doncic has long declined to discuss his father.)In Dallas, mom and son live separately near the American Airlines Center as Doncic grows into his independence, but still within walking distance.“This was his dream,” Poterbin said. “At 7 years old he was already talking about N.B.A. I cry a lot of times.”Yet there have been Year 1 challenges and disappointments for Doncic amid the Lukamania — and beyond the ever-present adjustment to playing for a team with scant postseason prospects.He watched helplessly as his fellow Spanish-speaking teammate J.J. Barea suffered a season-ending Achilles’ tear in January. He lived through his first big trade, seeing Dallas abruptly abort its planned Doncic/Smith Jr. partnership when the chance arose to acquire his pal Porzingis.“I was shocked,” Doncic said. “Europe doesn’t work like this.”Doncic has also struggled at times with his free throws, converting just 72.6 percent this season despite proving so adept at getting to the line (6.4 times per game). Mom, meanwhile, admitted that Doncic was “quite sad at first” about missing out on an All-Star spot because of a format change in which fan balloting, as of last season, only accounts for 50 percent of the equation for determining starters.The good news: These all rank as welcome tests — even the Mavericks’ sub-.500 record — compared to the early hurdles posed by the transition Doncic faced at 13. That was his tender age when Doncic left his mother back in Slovenia to enter the Real Madrid academy.“There are no words to describe this, really,” Poterbin said. “Honestly I would not go through it again.”“It was way harder,” Doncic said, “than coming from Madrid to here.”Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressD’Angelo Russell flashed some postseason magic, playing like the All-Star leader the Nets needed with 26 points, and Caris LeVert scored 23, leading the visiting Nets to a 111-102 victory on Saturday over the Philadelphia 76ers in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.Jimmy Butler scored 36 points and saved the third-seeded Sixers, favored by many to at least reach the East semifinals, from losing by 25. Joel Embiid slogged his way through 24 minutes on a troubled left knee that cost him much of the final month of the regular season and managed 22 points and 15 rebounds. Ben Simmons came up small against Russell, his high school teammate, who scored 19 second-half points.Russell, LeVert and Spencer Dinwiddie gave the Sixers fits off the dribble and buried open looks from 3-point range, and a team that got hot late and just made the playoffs suddenly has the upper hand on the road over a 51-win team stocked with stars.“I think earlier in the season, especially when we were struggling, we’d lose games like that,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said.With Philadelphia behind by 16 late in the fourth quarter, Amir Johnson was caught by television cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone. Johnson, who was inactive for the game, showed Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid the device into a pocket of his warm-up pants.“I just looked down because he said his daughter was extremely sick and he was checking on her,” Embiid said.Johnson issued an apology after the game, and the Sixers fined him an unspecified amount. It was a fitting episode in a game that the Sixers seemed to have phoned in.Russell hit a string of jumpers in the third quarter, never letting the Sixers seriously chip away at the lead. LeVert’s third 3-pointer in the fourth made it a 16-point game, and there was no looking back for one of the biggest wins since the sixth-seeded Nets moved to Brooklyn.Dinwiddie and DeMarre Carroll made consecutive 3-pointers during a 12-0 first-half run. LeVert hit two straight 3s for a 14-point lead, and the Sixers were soundly booed off the court.“We all got to do a better job,” Embiid said. “Us. The fans. We have to bring the fun.”WARRIORS 121, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 38 points and made eight 3-pointers, reaching the highest total in postseason history, and top-seeded Golden State began its quest for a three-peat by winning at home against Los Angeles on a night when tempers flared.Kevin Durant and Patrick Beverley were ejected with 4 minutes 41 seconds to go, 19 seconds after they received double technicals when Durant stripped Beverley and the Clippers guard fell into the scorer’s table.They both became enraged again, and the official Ed Malloy immediately sent them both to the locker room. Durant high-fived fans as he left.Curry was 8 for 12 from beyond the arc, passing Ray Allen (385) for career postseason 3-pointers with 386.MAGIC 104, RAPTORS 101 D. J. Augustin scored 25 points, including the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 3.5 seconds left, and seventh-seeded Orlando won at second-seeded Toronto in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round series.Kawhi Leonard, who led the Raptors with 25 points, got a final shot but missed the rim with his 3-point attempt from the top. The Raptors are now 2-14 in playoff series openers.WALTON TO COACH KINGS One day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers, Luke Walton reached an agreement on a four-year deal to coach the Sacramento Kings, according to a person familiar with the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Lakers’ president this week in part because he did not want to go through with firing Walton, as had been expected around the N.B.A. for weeks. On Friday, Walton and the Lakers mutually agreed to part ways with two seasons left on his contract — with Walton knowing that the Kings, after firing Coach Dave Joerger on Thursday, were eager to hire him.The Lakers have the former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and the Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams at their top of their list to succeed Walton. Lue coached the Lakers’ LeBron James for two and a half seasons in Cleveland.(MARC STEIN)Advertisement
Maybe they were never going to win a championship this season, even with LeBron James, but they were not supposed to be this bad. What happened?CreditCreditHarry How/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Marc SteinThe arrival of LeBron James as their latest in a succession of superstar imports was supposed to halt the longest period of suffering in the Los Angeles Lakers’ California history.What James and the Lakers have experienced instead will be remembered as the most disappointing season of James’s career — because it will extend a stubborn playoff drought that has flummoxed the N.B.A.’s most glamorous franchise.Not even James’s presence could prevent a sixth straight missed postseason for the new Lakers, who are mere days from being mathematically eliminated from the playoffs entering Sunday’s visit to Madison Square Garden to face the Knicks. The Lakers, remember, missed the playoffs only four times in their first 53 seasons after relocating from Minneapolis in the 1960-61 season.So much for Hollywood fairy tales.Perhaps expectations for this team were unrealistically high, given the modest quality of James’s supporting cast in Year 1, but his Lakerland debut was never supposed to veer this far off-script for a once-in-a-generation player. What follows is a breakdown of how things fell apart — in six stages.Without warning, on July 1, 2018, the first night of N.B.A. free agency, James announced through a 39-word news release that he was signing a four-year, $154 million contract with the Lakers.Yet the ensuing celebration did not last even 24 hours.On July 2, Golden State boldly swiped some of the Lakers’ thunder by signing the former All-Star big man DeMarcus Cousins to a bargain deal. The Lakers then spent the next week scouring the league for the best players willing to sign one-year contracts — thereby preserving salary-cap flexibility for the summer of 2019 and their planned pursuit of an All-Star sidekick for James.The problem: Magic Johnson and Rob Pelinka, the Lakers’ nascent front-office power duo, signed a slew of nonshooters and, shall we say, mercurial personalities who, as a group, prompted instant second-guessing.The Lakers countered the skepticism by insisting that playmakers and playoff-tested veterans, rather than shooting specialists who could open up space on the floor, would ease LeBron’s burden and potentially even match up well with the mighty Warriors — only to see their signees do little to hush the told-you-so crowd. JaVale McGee, the veteran center, initially exceeded expectations, but the quartet of Rajon Rondo, Lance Stephenson, Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Michael Beasley proved as collectively ineffective as feared.Perhaps we should have known that this was not going to be the usual LeBron season when a fight broke out between a number of Lakers and Houston Rockets in James’s first home game at Staples Center.And the tension never really let up.After just eight games — five of them losses — Johnson summoned Coach Luke Walton for a pointed lecture about the Lakers’ sluggish start. The team’s legendary point-guard-turned-team president never intended for the meeting or any details to leak to the news media, but they promptly did in the no-secrets world of the N.B.A.Johnson immediately tried to play down suggestions that Walton’s job was already in jeopardy, in an interview with The Los Angeles Times, but he would not go further than proclaiming that Walton was “going to finish the season, unless something drastic happens, which it won’t.”Walton is certainly not blameless in the Lakers’ struggles. His lineups, rotations and responsibility for L.A.’s worrisome drop to No. 22 leaguewide in offensive efficiency have routinely been questioned. Management, furthermore, is said to be dismayed by Walton’s refusal to hire a seasoned former head coach as his top assistant — something young coaches (Walton is 38) frequently do.Yet the public nature of the heat Walton took from his own front office made Johnson look impatient and, worse, ramped up the pressure on everyone in the Lakers’ locker room — especially the coach — before they even made it to Thanksgiving. With two years left on a five-year deal, Walton is widely expected to be shoved out of his toasty seat for good at season’s end.What can be classified as the best day of the Lakers’ season, if you only considered the box score, is also bound to be remembered as this season’s low point.The Lakers went to Oakland on Christmas Day for a game in the most anticipated television time slot on the regular-season calendar and throttled the two-time defending champion Warriors. The 127-101 rout capped an 18-9 surge that nudged L.A.’s record to 20-14, good for a promising fourth in the dauntingly deep Western Conference.But James strained his left groin as he stretched to retrieve a loose ball in the third quarter. The Lakers gradually pulled away without him — and James optimistically posted to Twitter the next day about how he “dodged a bullet,” with a #BackInNoTime hashtag — but the injury turned out to be the most serious he had ever sustained.James eventually missed 17 games. No previous injury had ever sidelined him longer than the eight games he lost to a back injury in 2014-15. The Lakers went 6-11 without James and, even accounting for all of their missteps before and after LeBron went down, can rightly point to suddenly losing their star as the biggest blow to the team’s playoff hopes.It remains unclear how #BackInNoTime turned into six weeks on the sideline for James. An inevitability given his age (34)? The byproduct of the Lakers playing at a much faster pace than LeBron’s Cleveland teams? A freak occurrence?Maybe it was a combination of all those factors.What’s clear, though, is that the Lakers’ overall poor health has consistently hurt them.The Lakers, for starters, are 6-15 since Jan. 19, when Lonzo Ball, who had begun to impress James as their starting point guard, sustained a serious ankle injury. And there’s more.Tyson Chandler, the veteran center who made such an impact defensively after joining the team Nov. 6, is dealing with a neck ailment. Josh Hart, the promising second-year guard, has been plagued by tendinitis in his left knee for months. And Brandon Ingram, the swingman with tantalizing potential as a scorer, missed several games with ankle and shoulder problems before he was ruled out for the rest of the season recently with deep venous thrombosis.In real time, only 11 days elapsed between New Orleans forward Anthony Davis’s trade request going public on Jan. 28 and the league’s Feb. 7 trade deadline. But that surely felt like an eternity for the Lakers’ quartet of starlets: Ingram, Ball, Hart and Kyle Kuzma.Especially since the fallout is continuing.From the minute James arrived in Hollywood, after the Lakers made unsuccessful trade runs at Paul George and Kawhi Leonard, it was known that the team would try to trade for Davis — which meant all four of L.A.’s top young players were destined to hear their names in trade speculation. Yet the leaguewide consensus was that Davis would not be made available until at least the 2019 off-season, theoretically giving the starlets an opportunity to build something with James — and maybe even change management’s mind about looking externally for LeBron’s superstar sidekick.But Davis’s trade request changed everything. Rich Paul, LeBron’s agent and longtime friend, became Davis’s agent in September and was widely perceived to have made the trade request on Davis’s behalf to get him to Los Angeles. A seemingly ceaseless stream of leaked Lakers offers thereafter irreparably fractured the locker room, no matter how hard Paul pushed back against that narrative.Nor can the team fully move on from the trade drama, because everyone knows the front office will be back on the phones with New Orleans soon, trying to beat out the Boston Celtics’ package for Davis once the Pelicans start fielding offers for him anew.A Feb. 12 road loss to the Atlanta Hawks was the Lakers’ fourth in five games entering the All-Star break and lowered their record to 28-29. James emerged from the break insisting that he would shift into playoff mode far earlier than normal — “It’s been activated,” LeBron promised — but the Lakers promptly lost road games to the Davis-less Pelicans and the draft-minded Memphis Grizzlies after a hope-building home win against the Houston Rockets.The season effectively ended March 2 in Phoenix, when the Lakers lost to a Suns team in the midst of a 1-18 funk. The defeat meant L.A. had fallen to five of the league’s six teams which currently have sub-.400 winning percentages (Chicago is the only exception). The loss was soon followed by announcements that Ball and Ingram would be held out of the Lakers’ remaining games — and that James’s minutes would be reduced.James was held out of Friday’s game against the Detroit Pistons via the increasingly popular leaguewide synonym for rest — “load management.” LeBron’s load, of course, is about to become lighter in April, May and June than anyone expected.These Lakers were never a lock to reach the playoffs in the loaded West, but the overwhelming majority of league observers and Las Vegas oddsmakers — who largely pegged them as a 48-win team — figured LeBron would find a way. He has instead absorbed criticism for spotty leadership and intermittent engagement with his new team as he prepares for life as a playoff spectator for the first time since his second N.B.A. season (2004-5).Last summer, when he was still preaching patience, Johnson did say that he would need two off-seasons to assemble a true contender even if the Lakers were fortunate enough to land LeBron. “Next summer, if nobody comes and I’m sitting here like this, then it’s a failure,” Magic said at the time.But spring has barely sprung — and next summer is already here for the Lakers and James. Sooner than they ever envisioned, Magic, Pelinka and Jeanie Buss, the Lakers’ owner, are on the clock to make moves that lead to a honeymoon that lasts.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — At the end of a disastrous season in which the Los Angeles Lakers failed to make the playoffs, despite having added LeBron James via free agency, Magic Johnson made the stunning announcement on Tuesday that he was stepping down as the team’s president of basketball operations.Johnson delivered the news at an impromptu news conference before the Lakers’ regular-season finale, against the Portland Trail Blazers, and he said he had not yet informed Jeanie Buss, the team’s controlling owner. In fact, he had told nearly no one before he addressed a mass of hastily assembled reporters.“I couldn’t face her to tell her,” he said, referring to Buss. He later added that he would find her at Staples Center to address her in person.Earvin, I loved working side by side with you. You’ve brought us a long way. We will continue the journey. We love you 💜💛 https://t.co/ofmQl6BtBzLater, the team released a statement, calling Johnson “not only a Lakers icon, but our family.”[Magic Johnson’s biggest moments running the Lakers.]“There is no greater Los Angeles Laker than Earvin Johnson,” the statement read, using Johnson’s formal name. “We are deeply grateful to Magic for all that he has done for our franchise — as a player, an ambassador and an executive.”The statement continued, “As we begin the process of moving forward, we will work in a measured and methodical fashion to make the right moves for the future of our organization.”“Measured” and “methodical” would be an about-face from the way Johnson stepped down. It was a surreal scene as he fielded questions for nearly 45 minutes after he made his announcement, appearing to hold back tears at times, and repeatedly said that he loved Buss like a sister. He then posed for pictures with team employees, former teammates and a local news anchor.“I want to go back to having fun,” Johnson, 59, said. “I want to go back to being who I was before taking on this job, and we’re halfway there with LeBron coming. I think this summer, with that other star coming in — whoever’s going to come in — I think this team is going to be in position to really contend for a championship with the growth of the other young players.”Johnson was named to the post in February 2017 and said at the time that it was “a dream come true.” But on Tuesday he said that he wanted to get back to being a mentor and a businessman, and that he had felt limited in his ability to do those things in his current role.For example, he said he was upset that he could not attend Dwyane Wade’s final game for the Miami Heat on Tuesday night — or congratulate Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder on Twitter for finishing the regular season averaging another triple-double. (Johnson said the league would have considered it “tampering.”)Johnson also said that he had received a phone call last week from the tennis star Serena Williams, asking if he would be an adviser to her.“When Serena called me, wow, that’s who I am,” Johnson said. “I love helping people.”He added: “I like to be free. And then I got a great life outside of this. What am I doing? I got a beautiful life, so I’m going to go back to that beautiful life, and I’m looking forward to it.”But there is palace intrigue at play, too — these are the Lakers, after all — and Johnson strongly indicated that he had been leaning toward firing Coach Luke Walton. Buss, though, is known to think highly of Walton, a former Laker who has been the team’s coach for three seasons, and Johnson suggested that he did not want to go through with it.“I would have to affect someone’s livelihood and their life,” Johnson said, “and I thought about that. That’s not fun for me. That’s not who I am, and then I don’t want to put her in the middle of us, even though she said, ‘Hey, do what you want to do.’ I know she has great love for him.”The Lakers, who have been downtrodden in recent years, are still one of the most glamorous franchises in the league, and Johnson, who helped the Lakers win five championships as a Hall of Fame point guard, remains one of the organization’s most popular figures.Johnson was hired to replace Jim Buss, the brother of Jeanie Buss. Johnson, who had previously been a partial owner of the team as well, worked alongside Rob Pelinka, a former agent, who was brought in as the team’s general manager. (Johnson said that he had not told Pelinka of his decision to step down, either.)While Johnson had some memorable moments at the helm of the Lakers’ operation, the roster that he and Pelinka built around James was widely considered inadequate. After losing to Portland in their finale, the Lakers had a record of 37-45, which assured them of missing the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season. It is the first losing effort by a James-led team since the star forward’s rookie season in 2003-04, when his Cleveland Cavaliers went 35-47.On Tuesday, Johnson preached patience.“I’m excited about the direction,” he said before he headed out the door.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein and Sopan DebIt is one of the oldest warnings in sports: Great athletes, they say, don’t often become great coaches.In the case of Magic Johnson, the legendary former Los Angeles Lakers point guard, that maxim must be amended. For Johnson, neither the front office nor the bench proved to be a winning or even comfortable habitat like the hardwood he used as a launching pad to basketball immortality.Johnson’s forgettable coaching career with the Lakers lasted just 16 games at the close of the 1993-94 season before he unhappily vowed never to return to that occupation. Then this week, Johnson’s two-year reign as the Lakers’ president of basketball operations ended even more ignominiously.He abruptly announced his resignation before the team’s final game of an enormously disappointing season, then revealed that he had told the news media of the decision before he had informed his boss, Jeanie Buss, in order to deny Buss an opportunity to talk him out of it.Johnson, of course, has stunned the world before, with his announcement and early retirement in 1991 because he was found to be H.I.V. positive, followed by his brief return to basketball in 1996. He spent the ensuing two decades constructing a business and entertainment empire replete with a highly successful chain of movie theaters and an ownership stake in the storied Los Angeles Dodgers. But Johnson always insisted that he was, first and foremost, a Laker.Handling his exit in such a haphazard manner has earned Johnson untold amounts of criticism in the days since, given how much the Lakers mean to Southern Californians and how unexpected this news was. Yet he seems prepared to take the hits in exchange for the opportunity to return to his more customary post-playing life “on the other side,” as he described it — forever a Laker but officially unattached to any team.“I like to be free,” Johnson said.But his freedom comes at a steep cost — to Johnson, to the Lakers, to a Hollywood belief in, well, magic.It turns out Magic Johnson, who piloted some of the greatest teams in N.B.A. history, will not be the savior who helps the Lakers escape their longest run of futility.After last summer’s blockbuster signing of LeBron James, Johnson proclaimed the Lakers to be “back” — with the promise of a return to full “back back” status this summer once they acquired at least one superstar sidekick to James. Johnson has instead fled just when the most crucial work was about to commence, with no clear path to bringing that second star to a flailing franchise that last reached the playoffs in 2013 and last won a championship in 2010.When he convened an impromptu news conference Tuesday night, rather than reveal his updated plan to restore the Lakers to title contention and placate a frustrated fan base, Johnson did just the opposite. Describing himself as “happier when I wasn’t the president,” he explained that the conditions and pressures attached to building a championship team around James meant that the real Magic “couldn’t come out.”In a series of rambling interviews with a number of news outlets while the Lakers were in the process of losing their regular-season finale to the Portland Trail Blazers, Johnson spoke of how he had longed to send a congratulatory tweet to Oklahoma City’s Russell Westbrook or to tutor Ben Simmons, the rising Philadelphia 76ers star, without inciting a storm of tampering allegations.“I knew if I stayed in the role,” he said, “I’m giving up a lot of me.”Such disclosures, of course, only served to validate much of the skepticism that greeted Buss’s decision to install Johnson as the new face of the Lakers’ basketball operations in February 2017.Rival front-office executives questioned Johnson’s lack of experience in the modern game and his willingness to embrace the all-encompassing nature of the job from the moment he was named to replace the much-maligned Jim Buss (Jeanie’s brother) and Mitch Kupchak, the longtime Lakers executive. Those questions only rose in volume when Buss named as Magic’s sidekick another front-office neophyte, Rob Pelinka, Kobe Bryant’s polarizing former agent.There were red flags from the start. In taking on his first active role with an N.B.A. team since his second retirement as a player in 1996, Johnson admitted that he had much to learn about navigating the ins and outs of the N.B.A.’s complex salary cap and the rhythms of a job that had evolved so much in his time away.“The main part for me is really learning the other part that I didn’t know, and that is to understand the C.B.A., the salary cap, where we are in terms of the salary cap and who’s a free-agent-to-be,” Johnson told USA Today of the challenges he faced in building a roster and understanding the collective bargaining agreement.Part of the issue might have been that Johnson could never just be a basketball executive. He is a mogul and a cultural force. While other N.B.A. teams primarily lean on decision makers focusing solely on basketball, Johnson seemed to always have his eye on something bigger than the game itself — reaching with his business tentacles to as many corners as possible.Johnson acquired a 4.5 percent share of the Lakers in 1994 before selling his stake in 2010. He even once hosted a syndicated late-night talk show, 1998’s “The Magic Hour.” And he was never just about one game either, acquiring a minority stake in the Dodgers in 2012 and one in the Los Angeles Football Club of Major League Soccer in 2014.Business had clearly been on Johnson’s mind when he took the Lakers’ front-office job in 2017. He told “CBS This Morning” in an interview at the time that he had turned down other offers to run a franchise, including the embattled Knicks, but that he felt it was the right time to rejoin the Lakers.“At this point in my life, you know, I think that I can do it right now because my businesses are running smooth,” Johnson said. “I can turn them over to my executive team that I have.” In that same interview, he said, “I always wanted to be the male Oprah.”Johnson was one of the first athletes to build an empire for himself outside professional sports. He went from whipping behind-the-back passes and being the engine that made the 1980s Showtime Lakers rev to investing in more than 100 Starbucks and Burger King locations, among many other business investments, all while flashing his famed charismatic grin. According to a Basketball Reference estimate, Johnson made about $23 million from N.B.A. salary alone, not including endorsements. Now his net worth is in the hundreds of millions.The business of reviving the Lakers, however, proved beyond him. Buss, as a result, is already facing pressure to rebound from her nostalgic faith in Johnson to pursue a more accomplished executive this time — such as Golden State’s Bob Myers or San Antonio’s R. C. Buford — to plot the team’s recovery from a season soaked in drama and dysfunction.Bizarre as the timing seemed, Johnson insisted to reporters that there were no hidden reasons for leaving other than the desire, as he put it to ESPN’s Rachel Nichols, to stop “letting myself down by not being Magic Johnson.”What’s clear is that walking away when he did spared him from firing Coach Luke Walton — something Walton and his assistant coaches, according to two people with knowledge of the situation who were not authorized to discuss it publicly, had been bracing for this week. Walton’s culpability for the Lakers’ 37-45 record is a matter of debate, given all of this season’s injuries, but Johnson’s desire to make a change had been widely anticipated in league circles for weeks, if not months. Buss’s well-chronicled fondness for Walton is thought to be the only thing that had kept him in place throughout Johnson’s reign.“I would have to affect someone’s livelihood and their life,” Johnson told reporters Tuesday night, seemingly confirming that he was poised to fire Walton. “And I thought about that. That’s not fun for me. That’s not who I am.”There had never been a player like Johnson before he was drafted out of Michigan State as the first pick in the 1979 N.B.A. draft. His court vision, quickness, length and versatility made him a dominant presence and led to his winning three Most Valuable Player Awards and five N.B.A. championships. He became perhaps the defining face of what it means to be a Laker — no easy feat given the deep well of great players who have worn their familiar purple-and-gold jersey.But the fact that Buss has yet to address the news media, beyond a brief statement insisting that the organization still believed “there is no greater Los Angeles Laker than Earvin Johnson,” speaks to the team’s level of shock that he would step down without warning.At a speaking engagement at Chapman University on April 3, Buss acknowledged that the Lakers “haven’t lived up to the brand my father created,” referring to one of the most successful owners in the history of American team sports: Jerry Buss. The signing of James in free agency last summer — for which Johnson is sometimes subjected to claims that his “closer” role was overstated — could not prevent the Lakers from extending their playoff drought to a franchise-worst sixth consecutive season. That figure matches the Knicks for the league’s third-longest active drought behind Sacramento (13 seasons) and Phoenix (nine).Now, the onus falls squarely on Buss to find a successor to repair a roster in need of overhaul.To Johnson’s relief, such issues are no longer his concern. He returns now to a world he may have felt increasingly more comfortable with anyway in recent years: the one outside basketball. As he told The Los Angeles Times in 2008, Johnson hoped to go down in history as a better businessman than an athlete.“That’s my dream,” Johnson said. “And I’m going after it each and every day.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanWith just over 40 seconds left to play in a fairly meaningless game between the playoff-bound Oklahoma City Thunder and the lottery-bound Los Angeles Lakers on Tuesday, Isaac Bonga, a 19-year-old Lakers rookie, badly missed a 15-foot shot. Russell Westbrook, the veteran Thunder guard, snatched the ball out of the air for a defensive rebound.“That’s for Nipsey!” he declared, referring to the rapper Nipsey Hussle, whose fatal shooting over the weekend seemed to shake many N.B.A. players.Westbrook’s presence on the floor in the closing moments of an easy 119-103 home victory for the Thunder would usually have been odd, but on this night the modern master of the triple-double was out there to grab his 20th rebound of the night.Combined with his 20 points and 21 assists, the rebound made Westbrook the second 20-20-20 player in N.B.A. history, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. He joined Wilt Chamberlain, who had 22 points, 25 rebounds and 21 assists on Feb. 2, 1968.Over the last few years, Westbrook’s triple-doubles have come so frequently that it is hard for one to stand out. He is in line for his third consecutive season of averaging a triple-double; Oscar Robertson, the only other player to compile such an average, did it just once. And along the way, Westbrook has set the record for triple-doubles in a season (42 in 2016-17) while recording a stunning 98 of them over a three-season span.It was clear that Westbrook was headed for an interesting night when he recorded 10 assists in the first quarter.Westbrook, a 30-year-old All-Star, had previously reached 20 rebounds in a game just once in his career, and he had topped 20 assists just four times. In his closest previous attempt at a 20-20-20 game, he had 17 points, 18 rebounds and 17 assists in a win over the Lakers during the 2016-17 season. No player other than Westbrook and Chamberlain has had even an 18-18-18 game.In a postgame interview Tuesday, Westbrook described himself as humbled by the experience and brought the conversation back to Hussle.“That wasn’t for me,” Westbrook said of the performance. “That was for my bro — that was for Nipsey. Twenty plus twenty plus twenty.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherSo much for easing back in.In his first game since Christmas to let a groin injury heal, LeBron James played 40 minutes and came an assist short of a triple-double as the Los Angeles Lakers beat the Los Angeles Clippers, 123-120, in overtime on Thursday night.James had missed 17 games, the longest absence of his N.B.A. career, after injuring his groin in the holiday game against the Golden State Warriors. Initially expected to sit out only a few games, James was forced to miss five weeks when the injury lingered.The Lakers were 20-14 at the time of his injury, and even won the Christmas game after he left in the third quarter, but they were 6-11 without him and now stand in the ninth spot in the Western Conference, just out of the playoff picture.The overtime win on Thursday was doubly meaningful because it came against the Clippers, who occupy the eighth spot, currently one game ahead of their in-city rivals.The Lakers were cagey about James’s status for the game, listing him as “doubtful” and not announcing his participation until an hour and a half before game time despite widespread suspicion he would play.There was nothing doubtful about his performance. James finished with 24 points along with 14 rebounds and 9 assists, all game highs.“Being out five weeks, I’m feeling it right now,” James told reporters. “I wish I could click my shoes together right now and be home in my bed.”Lakers Coach Luke Walton told The Los Angeles Times: “Wasn’t looking to play LeBron 40 minutes tonight, but that’s just kind of the way the game played out.”While James’s return performance reinforces the narrative that he is a timeless superstar, making the N.B.A. finals year after year, the injury is a reminder that he is 34, and the window for greatness in Los Angeles will not be open forever.With that in mind, Los Angeles is very interested in acquiring a superstar to complement James, specifically Anthony Davis of the Pelicans, who is interested in moving on. Davis was fined $50,000 this week after his agent, Rich Paul, spoke too freely about trades. Paul was at the Lakers game on Thursday night.Davis has been dealing with an injury of his own, to his finger, which has caused him to miss the last six games.The N.B.A. trade deadline is Thursday.An earlier version of this article misidentified the person who was fined for an N.B.A. agent’s public comments about trades. The player, Anthony Davis, was fined for the remarks, not his agent, Rich Paul.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Vast upheaval within the Los Angeles Lakers organization continued on Friday afternoon when the team announced that Luke Walton was stepping down as coach.The Lakers said in a statement that Walton and the team had “mutually agreed to part ways,” without elaborating. The news came three days after Magic Johnson, the team’s president for basketball operations, made the surprise announcement that he was resigning so he could devote more time to his business interests.Walton, 39, was in his third season with the Lakers, who were expected to vie for a playoff spot after signing LeBron James, a four-time N.B.A. most valuable player, to a four-year, $154 million contract last July. Instead, the Lakers scuffled to a 37-45 record after months of general dysfunction and momentum-sapping injuries. They finished 10th in the Western Conference, well out of playoff position.The N.B.A.’s postseason will start Saturday but without the Lakers, whose postseason drought is now at six seasons. Not even the celebrated addition of James could salvage this one, but he missed significant time with a groin injury. And even when he was on the court, he appeared detached from his teammates as weeks of misery mounted.The Lakers are fraught with problems. When Johnson announced that he was quitting this week, he indicated that he had been planning to fire Walton and that he had the support of Jeanie Buss, the team’s controlling owner, to go forward with the move. But then Johnson resigned — in part, he said, because he could not go through with affecting someone’s “livelihood.”Hours later, after the Lakers had closed out their season with a loss to the Portland Trail Blazers, Walton said that he was looking forward to an eventful summer with the team in hopes of making improvements. Now he is gone, too, though he may not be unemployed for long.The Sacramento Kings immediately responded to Friday’s news by reaching out to Walton’s representatives to arrange an interview for their coaching vacancy, according to two people familiar with Sacramento’s plans who were not authorized to discuss them publicly. Walton is considered the front-runner to replace Dave Joerger, whom the Kings fired this week.Steve Kerr, the coach of the Golden State Warriors, expressed his support for Walton, one of his former assistants.“In this job, as a coach in the N.B.A., you are 100 percent dependent on your circumstances: the strength of your organization, the momentum, unity,” Kerr told reporters in Oakland, Calif. “Everything has to be in good order, because if it’s not, as we have witnessed with the Lakers, then there’s going to be casualties, and usually the coach is the first one.”He added: “They’re losing one of the best humans in the N.B.A. They’re losing a guy who knows the game as well as anybody I’ve met. They’re losing somebody who players believe in.”Walton, the son of the Hall of Fame center Bill Walton, was working with an ill-conceived roster that lacked depth, defense and perimeter shooting. Still, the pressure was on him before the season even began. Once the Lakers got off to a slow start, Johnson chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting, raising speculation that Walton was already on the hot seat.Questions about Walton’s job security persisted throughout the season as he shuffled rotations and lineups, searching for solutions that never materialized.Walton refused to make excuses — publicly, he was a voice of unwavering optimism amid a sea of discontent — but it hardly helped that the Lakers were troubled by injuries, especially at point guard.Then there was James, who had been incredibly durable in his 16-year career. But during the Lakers’ Christmas Day game against the Warriors, he limped off the court with a strained groin and missed the next 17 games. Without him, the Lakers struggled. The hope was that they could regain their footing once he returned, but he was not the cure-all anyone imagined. The Lakers continued to lose with James back in the lineup, even though he said he had “activated” himself for a playoff push.It had become clear by then, however, that the Lakers did not have any discernible chemistry, especially after Johnson and Rob Pelinka, their general manager, tried and failed to acquire the All-Star center Anthony Davis from the New Orleans Pelicans ahead of February’s trade deadline. (It was no coincidence, perhaps, that Davis and James shared an agent, Rich Paul.) The Lakers were willing to send the Pelicans several of their promising young players, including Kyle Kuzma, Brandon Ingram and Lonzo Ball, but were rebuffed in their attempts to swing a blockbuster deal.The result was a team that seemed distracted at best and fractured at worst. Before long, the Lakers were officially eliminated from playoff contention. James did not dress for the final six games of the season.Walton, who spent most of his 10-year N.B.A. playing career with the Lakers, winning two championships as a reserve forward, was hired as their coach in 2016 after two seasons as an assistant with the Warriors. In 2015-16, he began the season as the Warriors’ interim coach while Kerr recovered from debilitating back issues, and guided the team to a 39-4 record, which included a league-record 24 straight wins to start the season.It was certainly an achievement, but the Warriors were coming off a championship and primed to excel. With the Lakers, Walton was trying to build something. Now, that vast project — however onerous — will continue without him.Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel VictorIn his two years as president of basketball operations for the Los Angeles Lakers, Magic Johnson presided over a team as chaotic and playoff-free as the one he’d inherited.The Lakers succeeded in stockpiling talent — including the franchise-altering signing of LeBron James — but failed in putting together complementary pieces, or attracting the second major star Johnson openly said he was chasing.[Magic Johnson stunned the basketball world by suddenly stepping down on Tuesday.]Here’s a look back at Johnson’s high and low points while running the team.In February 2017, four seasons into the team’s longest-ever playoff drought, the Lakers reshuffled their front office by firing the general manager, Mitch Kupchak, and installing Johnson as its president. Less than a month later, Rob Pelinka, a longtime agent, was hired as the general manager, reporting to Johnson.Officially and unofficially, Johnson had remained tied to the team since he retired in 1996. He owned a share of the team from 1994 to 2010, and after that he was an honorary vice president — a title the team took away from him after he violated the league’s tampering rules by tweeting about free agents.Three weeks before he was hired in his new role, he had returned to the Lakers as an adviser to Jeanie Buss, the team’s president and co-owner. She would soon clean house while promoting Johnson.“Everyone associated with the Lakers will now be pulling in the same direction, the direction established by Earvin and myself,” she said, using Johnson’s given name. “We are determined to get back to competing to win N.B.A. championships again.”The first major test of the new regime had decidedly mixed results.Days before the draft, Johnson shed the costly contract of Timofey Mozgov by giving up on D’Angelo Russell, whom the team had selected second over all just two years earlier. In return for the duo, the Brooklyn Nets gave up Brook Lopez and the 27th pick in the draft, which turned into the promising Kyle Kuzma. But Russell has blossomed this year with the Nets, earning an All-Star appearance while leading Brooklyn back to the playoffs.Russell’s departure opened the point guard spot for Lonzo Ball, who has flashed two-way potential but largely fallen short of his lofty expectations as the second pick in the draft. In addition to Kuzma, the Lakers struck gold with Josh Hart, who was selected 30th and has become a core piece.Johnson made no secret of his intent to draw the game’s biggest stars to Los Angeles, with an eye toward what was expected to be a major 2018 off-season. The team largely punted on the 2017 off-season to preserve its salary cap space in 2018, signing Kentavious Caldwell-Pope to a one-year deal.At the 2018 trade deadline, the Lakers shed the contracts of Jordan Clarkson and Larry Nance Jr., opening more cap space. Johnson said the trade indicated the Lakers would have the cap space and the ability to land two star players, either by trade or free agency.“I wouldn’t have made the move if I wasn’t confident,” he said at the time.Signing LeBron James to a long-term contract in 2018 was exactly the kind of result the Lakers had planned for and needed, setting expectations that they would return to the playoffs and compete for a championship. But the free agents the Lakers signed to surround him — Caldwell-Pope, Rajon Rondo, Lance Stephenson, JaVale McGee and Michael Beasley — immediately puzzled some observers.An optimist would have called them playoff-tested veterans. Others saw it differently: A cast of nonshooters and big personalities who would have a questionable fit next to James and the Lakers’ young talent.The hodgepodge crew was assembled partly because the team struck out on its bigger targets. After years of speculation that Paul George would return to his hometown, he instead opted to re-sign with Oklahoma City. The San Antonio Spurs sent Kawhi Leonard east to the Toronto Raptors. DeMarcus Cousins signed a bargain, one-year deal with the Golden State Warriors.Once the season arrived, the Lakers blew it in dramatic fashion, extending their record playoff drought. But they preserved cap space for the 2019 off-season, giving them another chance to add a star.There could be little doubt the Lakers would be interested in Anthony Davis as soon as he became available. James and Davis share an agent, and the Lakers were long believed to be Davis’s most committed suitor.But when the All-Star center made a public trade request in late January, he created a debacle for Johnson and the Lakers. The players in the Lakers’ young core — Ball, Kuzma, Hart and Brandon Ingram, the second overall pick from the 2016 draft — were constantly named in leaked trade offers.The Pelicans made an effort to head off any potential tampering when they announced Davis’s trade request. “We have also requested the League to strictly enforce the tampering rules associated with this transaction,” the team said in a statement.In addition to Davis’s connections to the Lakers, Los Angeles had a well-known history of tampering, dating back to Johnson’s tweets before he took over.Johnson was not very subtle about recruiting George during a 2017 appearance on “Jimmy Kimmel Live,” during which he was asked what he would do if he saw the player socially.“We’re going to say hi because we know each other, you just can’t say, ‘Hey, I want you to come to the Lakers,’ even though I’ll be wink-winking like, ‘You know what that means, right?’ ”The episode earned Johnson a warning from the N.B.A., and the team was later fined $500,000 for what the league deemed impermissible contact between Pelinka and George’s agent.In June 2018, Johnson was fined $50,000 for his comments about Giannis Antetokounmpo after praising the Bucks star.In February, the Sixers’ Ben Simmons — who plays as an oversize point guard, like Johnson did — requested a meeting with Johnson to get playing tips, prompting Johnson to publicly praise the former Rookie of the Year. But the league ultimately determined Johnson had not broken tampering rules.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Hours after Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Los Angeles Lakers’ president of basketball operations, and mere minutes after LeBron James’s first season as the franchise cornerstone ended with a buzzer-beating loss, James left Staples Center on Tuesday night without speaking to reporters, trailed only by security officers and questions about the team’s future.It was not the season anyone envisioned for the Lakers, who had upended the N.B.A. by signing James last summer with the hype and expectation of returning the franchise to its glory years. One of the most storied teams in the league, the Lakers have not won a championship in nine years, and Los Angeles is frustrated, hungry and impatient.Instead, the team collected nearly as many injuries as losses. James, who will miss the N.B.A. playoffs beginning Saturday for the first time in 14 years, watched the final six games of the season from the bench as the team looked to preserve him for next season. His next buzzy stop is a studio lot as the star of “Space Jam 2,” which he has said is set to begin filming this summer.For the Lakers (37-45), all the drama was off the court, right up to the end, with Johnson’s abrupt announcement so out-of-the-blue that he had not even told his boss, the team owner Jeanie Buss, before wading into a gaggle of reporters.[Here is a look at Magic Johnson’s biggest moments as team president.]On Wednesday morning, Johnson, 59, wrote on Twitter that he considers himself a “Laker for life.”He announced in 1991 that he was H.I.V. positive but said Tuesday that he was in good health and it was not a factor in his decision.Johnson had sealed a $154 million, four-year deal for James — two greats fulfilling their needs: Johnson to restore luster to a glamorous team; James to close out his career as a Laker and develop his business and entertainment interests centered on Hollywood.And now they both left Staples Center with a losing record and a team in chaos.In some ways, it was the perfect finale to a season that trafficked in dysfunction.So there was the coach, Luke Walton, saying what losing coaches always say: essentially, wait until next year. His job may have been saved when Johnson quit, but he would not talk about that.“We have a lot of time to work and get better,” Walton said late Tuesday after the Lakers’ loss to the Portland Trail Blazers. “Let’s organize and prioritize what we need to do so we can give ourselves a better chance next season.”It was a wasted season for everyone involved, and James is as polarizing as ever, even in Los Angeles, where as much as fans banked on him, they also retained a degree of skepticism that this was all real.Jonas Never, a prominent Los Angeles-based street artist, found that out the hard way.“Honestly,” Never said in a telephone interview, “Lakers fans are the trickiest.”Last July, he had talked a restaurant owner in Venice Beach into allowing him to paint a mural of James in a Lakers jersey to commemorate his arrival: 75 cans of spray paint in 12 hours for the “King of L.A.”It did not take long for the mural to be vandalized — not just once, but twice in a span of four days. The first time, it was salvageable. Someone had defaced the wall with the words “We Don’t Want You” and “No King,” along with “3-6,” a reference to James’s losing record in the N.B.A. finals. But Never was able to restore the mural. (“A two-minute fix,” he said.)The second time, someone splashed yellow paint all over James’s face, and Never had no choice but to paint over it.“If it had been a car, it would have been totaled,” he said.To be fair, most fans were excited about James. The news media coverage was breathless. And perhaps no member of the ticket-paying public had invested more in LeBron-to-L.A. than Jacob Emrani, a personal injury lawyer from Beverly Hills, Calif., who had purchased space for 40 James-themed billboards in the run-up to free agency.“I definitely didn’t think it was going to be something where we missed the playoffs or thought, ‘What the hell is happening here?’ ” Emrani said in an interview. “I’m disappointed in the breaks we got, but I’m not necessarily disappointed in LeBron. We were in fourth place when he went down.”Emrani was referring to what may have been the season’s turning point: the Lakers’ ill-fated Christmas Day game against the Golden State Warriors, which James himself cited in a recent interview with Spectrum SportsNet, the Lakers’ broadcast partner. The Lakers were playing solid basketball at the time — in fact, they clobbered the Warriors to improve their record to 20-14 — but James injured his groin in the third quarter and wound up missing the next 17 games. The Lakers went into a tailspin without him.“Disappointed in my body,” James told Spectrum SportsNet, adding: “Because I knew exactly where we were at that point. And we just were never able to get back from that.”Once James returned, the team’s front office unsuccessfully tried to engineer a trade for another big star, the New Orleans Pelicans’ Anthony Davis — this, after James had told ESPN that it would be “amazing” to play alongside Davis.The plan appeared to be to essentially trade away the rest of the team. The fallout was clear: Whatever fragile bonds that remained in the home locker room at Staples Center seemed to fray at the seams.For many fans, it was impossible to dissociate James from the failed trade — James and Davis share an agent, Rich Paul — and much of the mess that followed.“Nearly everyone on the roster was involved in those trade rumors,” Never said. “How can you really feel wanted if you think you’re going to be packing your locker the next day?”As the losses mounted, so did the criticisms of James: that he appeared detached from his teammates, that basketball was secondary to his growing interest in his entertainment company, that his body was finally breaking down after so many years of athletic genius, that he was no longer capable of carrying a team to a title.But in the 55 games that James did play this season, he was pretty good. He averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists a game while shooting 51 percent from the field. Besides, a long summer may benefit him after so many extended playoff runs.“The only thing that was hard was that he got hurt,” Walton said late Tuesday night. “It takes time to build a relationship with somebody. But as our relationship grew and I got to see what it was like coaching him, it was great. And I believe if we could have stayed healthy, we would have had a very successful season. He’s an incredible player.”For his part, James told Spectrum SportsNet that he wanted to use the summer to get his body back to “120 percent” ahead of training camp — even as he moonlights on the set of “Space Jam 2.” He has been adamant that his work in entertainment will not interfere with his work on the basketball court.The question is whether one bad season will become two. So much hinges on the summer as the Lakers look to add another star to their roster. (Emrani said he had plans for more billboards, though he declined to say which top-tier free agents he would target.) James has said that he will be as involved in the team’s recruiting efforts as possible.“I’m looking forward to seeing who jumps in the car with me and wants to take this ride to the top,” James said in his interview with Spectrum SportsNet. “I know what I bring to the game. I know my commitment to the game. I’ve never cheated the game, and throughout my career, it’s always given back to me.”Back in Venice Beach, Never painted a new mural during the middle of the N.F.L. season, replacing LeBron James with Derwin James, a safety for the Los Angeles Chargers. The mural has been up for months, Never said, and no one has touched it.An earlier version of this article misstated when LeBron James injured his groin during a game against the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day. It was in the third quarter, not the first half.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — Magic Johnson abruptly quit as the Los Angeles Lakers' president of basketball operations Tuesday night, citing a desire to get back to the simpler life he enjoyed before taking over the franchise just over two years ago.Johnson didn't tell owner Jeanie Buss or general manager Rob Pelinka before he stepped in front of reporters about 90 minutes before the final game of the Lakers' sixth consecutive losing season.Johnson didn't directly tie his decision to the future of coach Luke Walton, who was widely expected to be fired by Johnson soon. But Johnson repeatedly mentioned Buss' affinity for Walton and Johnson's desire not to cause upheaval between them.Johnson also says he's tired of being fined by the NBA for tampering.___Advertisement
On Pro BasketballA move West came with dire warnings, but the reality is setting in that a James-led team might miss the playoffs.The last time LeBron James’s team missed the playoffs was 2004-5, his second year in the N.B.A.CreditCreditMark J. Rebilas/USA Today Sports, via ReutersSupported byBy Marc SteinLeBron James can’t say that he wasn’t warned. Lots of us were crowing in the summer, and pretty loudly so, about what would greet the unquestioned Lord of the Eastern Conference if he dared to defect. Sign with the Los Angeles Lakers if you wish, for the sunnier Hollywood life and all the perks, but brace yourself for the most trying regular season of your career if you decide to go West. That was the gist of the scouting report — which in retrospect could not have been much more prescient. On cue: The most daunting and, yes, disappointing season of James’s career is right here, right now, for the biggest name in basketball.And it appears he will soon have to stomach that it’s going on his ledger in the most permanent ink that he was unable to bring a halt to the longest postseason drought in Lakers history — barring an unforeseen resurrection from a fractured group that sits four and a half games out of a Western Conference playoff berth with 19 games to go.No matter how much culpability you wish to assign James for what is poised to go down as the Lakers’ franchise-record sixth successive trip to the draft lottery, he’s going to have to own this as much as the front-office tandem of Magic Johnson and Rob Pelinka as well as the under-fire coach Luke Walton.The LeBron Way, for years and years, has worked something like this: He inevitably gets most of the credit when his team flourishes; his teammates absorb the bulk of the blame when things unravel. But this is different. This would be the jarring sight of James, fresh off his eighth consecutive finals appearance, actually missing out on the N.B.A. postseason for the first time since his second professional season in 2004-5, when he was just 20.Even though he can rightly point to his recent groin strain as the biggest standings-altering disruption these Lakers have endured, James surely understands that his maiden campaign in Los Angeles is bound to be recorded in many precincts as a failure to make the playoffs that belongs to him.The Lakers are 4-7 since James returned from the groin injury that sidelined him longer (17 consecutive games) than any previous injury in his 16-year career. They have followed up an unsightly road loss to Atlanta in their final game before the All-Star break with harder-to-rationalize road losses to New Orleans, Memphis and Phoenix since the break.After Saturday night’s humiliation against a 13-51 Suns team, which dropped the Lakers to 30-33, James’s gang only sports a 1.3-percent chance of reaching the postseason, according to Basketball-Reference.com.They also have the league’s eighth-toughest remaining schedule, according to Tankathon.com. We’ll never know if the Lakers, who had risen to a heady fourth in the West at 20-14 when James sustained the groin injury in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State, could have kept building upon that promising start with a healthy LeBron. But we most certainly do know that James’s mere return to the lineup, at 34, wasn’t enough to rescue a roster that has been assailed since conception for its lack of perimeter shooting and its defensive deficiencies. Nor has he been able to galvanize a locker room that was deeply destabilized by the Lakers’ trade pursuit of the New Orleans superstar Anthony Davis, which became all-consuming in late January, and has never recovered. It obviously doesn’t help that James, after missing two key free throws in the final minute Saturday, is also converting a substandard 66.9 percent of his attempts from the line to give his critics more handy fodder.Leaving his home-state Cleveland Cavaliers for the Lakers last July without the accompaniment of a second superstar meant that James, in a far deeper conference, would have little margin for error just to reach the playoffs. When you combine James’s injury absence with the continuing post-Davis malaise and the team’s declining ball movement since Lonzo Ball (ankle) was sidelined six weeks ago, it adds up rather quickly to a margin that is long gone.The calls for Walton’s dismissal, as they were in January, remain nonsensical. A coaching change now, much like New Orleans’s decision to fire General Manager Dell Demps shortly after the trade deadline, would have no discernible effect on the Lakers’ short-term prospects beyond providing their frustrated fans with a “See? We did something” sacrifice.The prevailing assumption in league coaching circles remains that Walton will almost certainly be dismissed after the season, followed by the Lakers resuming their trade quest for Davis. But denying Walton an opportunity to at finish out a season wrought with drama and distraction since James’s first dribble in purple and gold would be cruel and needless. Changes are coming, though. It’s an open secret that a big off-season reset looms in Lakerland. James always knew that his new club would not be in the title mix until his second campaign as a Laker, but his patience predictably faded quickly — one more reason desperation has become so palpable around this team. Many of us know-it-alls in the news media indeed wrote in our preseason forecasts that the playoffs were no certainty for these Lakers, as constructed, but very few of us were actually willing to outright predict that they would miss out. Reason being: It’s not very smart to bet against LeBron Raymone James.Yet we’ve suddenly reached that unprecedented juncture where it would be wholly irresponsible to advise you that James can extricate himself from this jam just because he’s LeBron. Whether it’s the lingering effects from his groin injury, or his own unmistakably waning spirit in the face of increasingly bleak odds, James has been lacking the zip you associate with his well-chronicled playoff mode — which he assured us on Feb. 21 had been “activated” earlier than usual.I briefly stood beside James on the floor in Charlotte, N.C., before the All-Star Game tipped off and bought into the idea a surge was coming when he insisted he was eager to embrace “the challenge” of hauling the Lakers out of their hole.“And I’m getting healthy, too,” James said that night. A mere two weeks later, it’s already time to start imagining the N.B.A.’s first spring without King James after watching him for eight straight Junes — and wondering how on Earth he’s going to cope with not being a part of it.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCount Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James among those who were stunned by team president Magic Johnson's resignation on Tuesday night.Despite Johnson's sudden departure, James stands behind the organization and Lakers owner Jeanie Buss, a source close to the All-Star forward told ESPN's Ramona Shelburne.ESPN also reported that head coach Luke Walton participated in exit meetings with the players on Wednesday.Walton's job security is in jeopardy after the Lakers (37-45) missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season despite the offseason signing of James to a four-year, $154 million deal.James, 34, battled injuries and appeared in a career-low 55 games and averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists per game in 2018-19.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGeneral manager Vlade Divac and the Sacramento Kings agreed to a four-year contract through the 2022-23 season, according to The Athletic.Financial terms were not announced.Divac, who became GM in early 2015, has built a nucleus of promising young players that includes Marvin Bagley III, Buddy Hield, De'Aaron Fox and Bogdan Bogdanovic.The Kings finished 39-43 this season and in ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. That was the Kings' best record since 2005-06 - the last time they qualified for the playoffs.The Kings started 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt, however, until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final spot.Divac, 51, played 16 seasons in the NBA for the Kings, Los Angeles Lakers and Charlotte Hornets. He will be enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in September.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreJames’s first season with the Lakers has been disappointing, but passing his idol in career scoring goes beyond winning and losing.By Benjamin HoffmanThere was no Instagram post celebrating the achievement in advance this time. There was relatively little buildup from the news media. It was an event that might have dominated the news cycle in years’ past, but when LeBron James passed Michael Jordan on the N.B.A.’s career scoring list on Wednesday night, it was a triumph that somehow had been reduced to a footnote.James came into the Los Angeles Lakers’ game against the Denver Nuggets needing 13 points to surpass Jordan for fourth place on the career list. With 5 minutes 38 seconds remaining in the second quarter, he managed to force his way to the basket for a layup, giving him 14 points for the game and 32,294 for his career. For good measure, he was fouled on the play. After a short stoppage to acknowledge the moment, play resumed as the Lakers, clinging to the last shreds of their playoff hopes, tried their best to overcome a huge early deficit at home against a heavily favored opponent.LeBron passes Michael Jordan on all-time scoring list pic.twitter.com/G2tAovqMrzThe Lakers, led by an unlikely group of bench players, did make a run at Denver, reducing a 17-point deficit at halftime to 2 points with 8:37 left in the fourth quarter. But the Nuggets regained their footing and ran away with a 115-99 victory, spoiling a night in which James contributed 31 points, 7 rebounds and 7 assists, looking far more energized on both ends of the court than he had in recent weeks, and finishing the night with his career point total up to 32,311. James, who has taken the brunt of the criticism for the Lakers’ failings in a difficult first year in Los Angeles, had acknowledged the pending accomplishment in a tweet shortly before the game, but was measured when discussing it with reporters earlier in the day.“I take all accomplishments as they come,” he said. “Any time I’m in the breath with any other greats — and obviously M.J. being the guy that I looked up to my whole life, the guy I admired as a kid — I think it’s going to be pretty cool.”Jordan, who owns the Charlotte Hornets, issued a brief statement on Thursday, saying, “I want to congratulate LeBron on achieving another great milestone during his amazing career.” The statement was notable mostly for being far more succinct than the one he issued when Kobe Bryant passed him on the career scoring list in 2014.One would hardly have guessed from either man’s words that the greatest current basketball player had just surpassed his idol in their sport’s signature statistic. The inability for James to truly celebrate the moment was yet another indignity in a season full of them.It was a little more than a year ago when James had seemingly settled into a groove. He scored his 30,000th point — a feat he congratulated himself about on Instagram hours before he actually accomplished it. With that hurdle cleared, and with recent championship runs in Miami and Cleveland under his belt, his march toward challenging Jordan, then Bryant, then Karl Malone and maybe even Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, the N.B.A.’s career scoring leader, seemed as if it would come without the criticism that had followed him earlier in his career.A decision — a loaded word when it comes to James — to move to an ill-prepared Lakers team in the off-season has changed the calculus altogether. The team was predicted by most to struggle to make the playoffs in the West thanks to its collection of too-young players and veterans who do not complement James. Nevertheless, many have labeled the year a disappointment by virtue of the team’s struggles despite having James, a player whose presence has seemingly guaranteed a finals appearance for close to a decade.As a result, James and the people around him have not been able to take much joy in his accomplishments. Just last week he passed Andre Miller to move into 10th place in career assists, thus making him the only player currently in the top 10 in both career points and assists. That feat — it had been temporarily attained by only a handful of other players going back to the days of Bob Cousy — was met with a collective shrug.It is a reality of James’s life that he acknowledged on Wednesday.“I haven’t really appreciated anything I’ve been able to accomplish because I’m so engulfed in what’s next,” he said. “How I can continue to get better; how I can help this franchise get back to where it needs to be.”An occasional season of missing the playoffs is not unusual for most players — even the great ones — but to capture how truly rare it would be for a James-led team, consider that he has played double-digit playoff games in each of the last 13 years. He has appeared in nine N.B.A. finals — winning three — and as a result his career rankings among playoff performers come off as outrageous, even for someone as accomplished as James. Those rankings almost certainly will not improve this year. But among the more interesting aspects of James’s current predicament is the opinion among many Lakers fans that the team’s struggles have resulted in James’s failing to live up to Bryant’s legacy. Those criticisms ignore the fact that the Lakers’ current six-year run of missing the playoffs included three seasons in which Bryant was still with the team. In fact, when Bryant passed Jordan on the career scoring list in 2014 — a feat considered a big enough deal at the time that a road game in Minnesota was stopped for several minutes so the crowd could give him a standing ovation and the Timberwolves’ owner could present him with the game ball — the Lakers were only 8-16 and, partially a result of a season-ending injury to Bryant later in the year, were on their way to a 21-61 record.But in one of the endless parallels between the careers of Jordan and James, players who will be debated long after both are gone, Jordan, who passed Wilt Chamberlain for No. 3 on the career scoring list in 2003, also found little joy in what should have been a huge accomplishment, largely because his Washington Wizards were a .500 team at the time. “The thing about stats is they define you when you’re 10 or 20 years past the game,” Jordan said when asked to sum up his feelings on the accomplishment. “While you’re playing, what matters is wins.”James, who wears No. 23 because of Jordan, put a wristband on his forearm because of Jordan, learned to shoot fadeaways because of Jordan and pitches sneakers for Nike just like Jordan does, may want to heed that advice from Jordan in terms of coming back on his accomplishments later, even if they have to be put aside for now. The Lakers could never win another game and James, a player who still refuses to label himself a scorer, will always have more points than Jordan, the player who served as his inspiration on a path to greatness. “I gotta carry it on to the next kid,” James said after the game, finally letting his emotion truly show. “Hopefully I can inspire the next kid like myself.”An earlier version of this article misstated the time in the game when LeBron James moved to fourth on the N.B.A.'s career scoring list. It was with 5:38 left in the second quarter, not 5:38 into the second quarter.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday.Walton compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.Since Rick Adelman left Sacramento in 2006 after eight seasons, the Kings have had nine head coaches.The most recent was Dave Joerger, who was fired on Thursday.Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaATLANTA — Kyle Kuzma had his first interaction with LeBron James a little more than a year ago, when Kuzma was a first-year forward with the Los Angeles Lakers and James was a few months from dragging the Cleveland Cavaliers to another appearance in the N.B.A. finals. Kuzma had reached out by phone, hoping for some tips.“Just wanted to see how one of the greats takes care of his body and has so much longevity,” Kuzma recalled this week in an interview. “Everybody wants to play basketball for as long as possible.”So much has changed since that initial conversation. Kuzma and James are teammates now, and Kuzma is experiencing the unique challenges that come with playing alongside one of the game’s behemoths. At the same time, James’s body finally betrayed him this season, which has only heightened the sense of urgency within the organization: The Lakers, who have missed the playoffs for five years running, are not in position for a patient rebuild.James, at 34, may still be in his prime, but the stakes are already high for a franchise that desperately wants to maximize his time in Los Angeles. And while neither James nor Lakers management has shown much enthusiasm for coaxing along a young core — the Lakers tried to ship half the roster to New Orleans last week — they are stuck in this together. James was supposed to be the savior of a flagship franchise gone astray; salvaging the final months of this year would be a key indicator that he still wields that type of power.“We have to approach the rest of the season just like you would during the playoffs,” Kuzma said.As Kuzma recalled his talk with James, he had no way of knowing that the Lakers were mere hours from suffering one final implosion before the N.B.A. All-Star break — a 117-113 loss to the Atlanta Hawks that left the team with a losing record and ample opportunity for soul searching.“It’s time for us to get away and reflect a little bit about where we are as a group,” Coach Luke Walton said. “I think this first part of the season, we’ve gone through a lot of adversity. And we’re probably not where we want to be, but we’re still close enough.”Close enough, that is, for vying for a spot in the playoffs, which was both an indication of the team’s modest goals and its sad reality. At 28-29, the Lakers are in 10th place in the Western Conference standings. It is unfamiliar territory for James, who has not been on a losing team this late in a season since he was a first-year forward with the Cavaliers.“But with LeBron on your team, anything is possible,” said Mychal Thompson, a power forward for the Showtime-era Lakers and an analyst for the team’s radio broadcasts. “I mean, look at some of the teams he’s taken to the finals — including last season. He’s capable of doing great things if you just get on board and run with him.”The Lakers, though, seem fragile after nearly five months of drama — all of it stemming directly or indirectly from the $154 million deal that James signed to join the team last summer. The pressure was on from the start, and little has gone according to plan.“There’s been more noise this year,” Walton said, “but that was to be expected with the moves in the off-season. That was something to be anticipated.”Where to begin? Brandon Ingram and Rajon Rondo were suspended for trying to brawl with the Houston Rockets two games into the season. Magic Johnson, the team’s outspoken president of basketball operations, chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting for the team’s slow start, igniting lasting questions about Walton’s job security. Nearly every player on the roster has been injured, and that includes James, who missed 17 games with a strained groin.And lest we forget: Last week, Johnson and General Manager Rob Pelinka tried to trade away nearly half the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans for Anthony Davis, who, before the start of the season, hired the same agent who represents James. It was the clearest sign yet that Johnson is willing to attempt the very boldest moves — no matter the residual damage.Consider that the Lakers, amid their ultimately fruitless effort to pry Davis away from the Pelicans, lost by 42 points to the Indiana Pacers. And with rumors of which Lakers would be traded swirling through social media, it was difficult to find arguments in their defense — even from James himself.Kuzma, who was offered up as one of the pieces in a potential deal, said it had been difficult to drown out the noise.“It’s definitely tough,” he said, “because this generation, you’re always on your phone, always on social media, always seeing it somewhere on TV.”But the trade deadline passed, and the roster more or less remained intact. There had been a sense that a surprising win against the Boston Celtics on Feb. 7 would galvanize the team in the wake of so much uncertainty. And even after losing to the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, the Lakers still had a chance to build some momentum against the Hawks on Tuesday.Before the game, James appeared to be in an upbeat mood. In the locker room, he knelt on a giant inflatable ball as he worked on some core-strengthening exercises. He crooned the lyrics to “Plug Walk” by the hip-hop artist Rich the Kid. He made small talk with Ingram. It was all vintage James.About three hours later, once the Lakers had punctuated their loss with a turnover, James made a beeline off the court and into the tunnel. He was practically steaming. He had finished with his fifth triple-double of the season — 28 points, 16 assists, 11 rebounds — but the Lakers’ defense was as porous as a coffee filter, and the result was just as messy.“I can throw that game in the trash,” James said.In a three-minute postgame session with reporters, Kuzma mentioned the concept of “fun” five times — specifically, the notion that the Lakers were not having much of it.“A lot of times we’re out there with sad faces, very focused faces,” Kuzma said. “But I think we’re at our best when we’re having fun.”Fun may not be the primary objective for James, and the psychic effects of the loss are sure to linger until at least Feb. 21, when their season will resume after the All-Star break with a home game against the Houston Rockets. For now, though, the best thing for these players may be to be away from each other for a while, which was one of Walton’s suggestions before they parted for the break.“Spend some time by yourself,” he said, and added: “I think we’ve got a group that will be ready by the time we get back.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday. He compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.--The Lakers, meanwhile, received permission to discuss their opening for head coach with Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams, ESPN reported, citing league sources.The Lakers are focusing on Williams and former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue, and general manager Rob Pelinka plans to speak with each candidate in the near future, league sources told ESPN.After spending the previous two years in the San Antonio Spurs' front office following the death of his wife Ingrid in 2016, Williams got back into coaching as Brett Brown's top assistant with the 76ers.--The 76ers fined veteran center Amir Johnson an undisclosed amount for showing teammate Joel Embiid his cell phone on the bench late in a 111-102 loss to the Brooklyn Nets in Game 1 of their playoff series.TV cameras caught Johnson on the bench in the fourth quarter, when the 76ers were 16 points down and he was scrolling through his phone. After showing Embiid something on his phone, Johnson put it into the pocket of his warm-ups."I apologize for having my phone on the bench in today's game," Johnson said in a statement released hours after the game by the 76ers. "I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions. I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."--Milwaukee Bucks forward Nikola Mirotic is expected to return from a thumb injury to play in Game 1 of the first-round series against the Detroit Pistons on Sunday.Mirotic missed the final 11 games of the regular season after fracturing his left thumb during a March 19 game against the Los Angeles Lakers.Mirotic fully participated in Friday's practice and took part in Saturday's non-contact practice. He had his thumb taped during both workouts.--The Washington Wizards announced they will not make a qualifying offer to free agent forward Devin Robinson after he was apparently arrested late Friday."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend a qualifying offer to him for the 2019-20 season," it read.According to Washington Post reporter Candace Buckner, who covers the Wizards, Robinson was involved in an altercation with Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills at a nightclub.--Toronto Raptors forward OG Anunoby could be sidelined until the Eastern Conference finals, should the team make it that far, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.Anunoby underwent an emergency appendectomy on Thursday.The second-year player, who is a key reserve for the Raptors, scored 7.0 points per game this season with an average of 2.9 rebounds. He played in 67 games this season, starting six of them, a year after he started 62 games as a rookie from Indiana.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaThe Los Angeles Lakers lost their season to injuries and general ineptitude weeks ago, and all that remains for them now are a handful of games and a playoff-free finish. It turns out there is still plenty of room for minor calamities along the way, which they proved at Madison Square Garden on Sunday afternoon.In a sleepy matinee devoid of long-term consequences, the Lakers’ 124-123 loss to the Knicks was, in some ways, a symbol for all that has gone wrong for them — and for LeBron James in particular. Absent a bunch of injured players, the Lakers crumbled against the worst team in the league, and James, for all his ability, was more problem than solution.After hogging the ball for his team’s final four possessions, James had a leaning runner — one that could have put his team ahead — blocked by the Knicks’ Mario Hezonja in the waning seconds. For the Knicks, who have been bound for the N.B.A. draft lottery since training camp, it was a rare chance to celebrate. For the Lakers, who had seemingly hit rock bottom when they lost to the Phoenix Suns two weeks ago, it was another opportunity to rev up the backhoe and dig a little deeper.“We got real stagnant,” said Lakers forward Kyle Kuzma, who was reduced to a spectator on the court late in the game as James tried to win it by himself.James’s appearances at the Garden are usually big deals. He likes the lights, the stage, the grandeur, the history. But the postbrunch atmosphere for Sunday’s game had all the buzz of a linoleum convention, an indictment of two lousy teams playing for nothing — and an indication, perhaps, that James has lost some of his luster this season.He had his moments — a dunk here, a no-look pass there — that had the crowd roaring with appreciation. James finished with 33 points, 8 assists and 6 rebounds, which is a fairly ordinary game for him — even now, at age 34, chest-deep in his 16th season.But he has set an impossible standard for himself, and his late-game struggles against the Knicks were emblematic of a season gone awry. He faded badly in the fourth quarter, shooting 4 of 15 from the field as Hezonja did what he could to make James’s afternoon as difficult as possible. James missed his final four field-goal attempts.“Anytime he was with the ball, I was trying to get him tired,” Hezonja said.It is hardly the worst strategy to have James dominate the ball in pressure situations and let him do what he wants. How many times has he come through?“Like, thousands,” Hezonja said.But this season has been a sad anomaly for James, who missed a large chunk of time with a groin injury and then did little to resuscitate things once he returned.In a few weeks, James’s streak of 13 straight playoff appearances and eight straight trips to the N.B.A. finals will come to an end. No one expected him to haul the Lakers (31-39) to the mountaintop — the roster was poorly constructed from the start — but the level of dysfunction has been fairly shocking. James is already banking on the off-season.“There’s a lot of great free agents this summer,” James said. “Not going to name any names, because every time I say something, or our organization says something about a specific person, we get in trouble. But we have an opportunity to get better.”For now, though, James is taking some hits to his reputation. There was the Anthony Davis saga, which seemed to erode whatever fragile chemistry the team had left. There was James’s subsequent pledge to “activate” himself into playoff mode, which merely resulted in more losses. And there was Sunday, when James tried to win the game by himself and came up empty.Even Walt Frazier, the Hall of Fame guard who is an analyst for MSG Network, criticized James during Sunday’s broadcast for sitting apart from his teammates, at the end of the bench, during an early timeout. “When you’re the face of the N.B.A., you should be more a part of the team,” Frazier said.To be fair, James was not in the game at the time, and he always sits at the end of the bench. But the optics were poor, and James has not been an exemplar of team-building this season. It has been easy to find faults. And sure enough, late in the fourth quarter, he appeared to show, once again, how little he trusts his teammates.“We got the ball in our best player’s hands and we tried to make him make the right decisions,” Kuzma said. “We just try and live with it.”The Knicks, who closed the game on a 13-1 run, have won 14 games this season. Two of those wins have come against the Lakers. James was asked if that bothered him.“It bothers me that we didn’t close the game out,” James said. “And being the competitor that I am, it bothers me that I didn’t make enough plays down the stretch. It bothers me that I didn’t even get a shot up at the hoop. Of course that stuff bothers me.“But what’s the difference between their record and our record? Two teams out of the postseason. So there’s no difference.”No difference between two bad teams, except that James plays for one of them. And that is the biggest surprise of all.Kelly Whiteside contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The Los Angeles Lakers described last weekend’s N.B.A. All-Star break as an opportunity for a much-needed reset, with the hope that they could ultimately make a playoff push after spending a few days apart. None of it sounded very convincing.But when the team reconvened for practice on Wednesday morning, LeBron James said his level of intensity had been “activated,” as if he were a superhero who had flipped a switch. He does not usually activate himself this early in the season, he said, but the Lakers need all of him now — in large part because they had lost so much ground when he was sidelined for about a month with a groin injury.“We would have loved to have had success when I was out, but we didn’t, so this is where we are right now,” James said.And when asked how he would elevate the play of his younger teammates, he put it simply: “We don’t have a choice.”In other words, it was sink or swim for the Lakers before their game against the Houston Rockets on Thursday night, and there would be no lifeguard.For one night, at least, the Lakers swam. They were cohesive enough to come away with a 111-106 victory against one of the better teams in the Western Conference. For one night, at least, the Lakers showed that they could erase a 19-point deficit by playing solid defense and making their free throws. For one night, at least, the Lakers could depend on players like Brandon Ingram (27 points, 13 rebounds) and Kyle Kuzma (18 points) to deliver in a game that the team really needed to win.The question now is whether the Lakers, who at 29-29 are the very definition of average, can build off it. Consistency has not been their hallmark.“It can give us some momentum that we need,” Coach Luke Walton said, “or it can do nothing. It depends how we respond to this.”Not so long ago, the Lakers had a similarly galvanizing win — or so it seemed.It was Feb. 7, and before the league’s trade deadline Magic Johnson, the team’s president of basketball operations, had failed in his quest to ship nearly half of the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans in exchange for the All-Star center Anthony Davis. It was a huge soap opera, and the Lakers responded in surprising fashion: by going out that night and defeating the Boston Celtics — on the road, no less.The win, though, was fool’s gold. The Lakers got pulverized by the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, then hobbled into the All-Star break with a loss to the Atlanta Hawks — a performance so devoid of energy that it seemed to signal a dysfunctional locker room, and maybe even one that was beyond repair.The team was below .500.Walton encouraged his players to reflect and refocus over the break. For James, that meant returning to Los Angeles in playoff mode — much earlier than he would prefer.But this is unfamiliar territory for James, a three-time champion who has made 13 straight trips to the playoffs and eight straight appearances in the N.B.A. finals. Now, with an inexperienced batch of teammates on the Lakers, he is merely fighting to lead them into the postseason.“I’m all about being uncomfortable,” he said this week. “I love being uncomfortable. I fall in love with being uncomfortable, so this is another uncomfortable thing for me, and I love it.”Then he must have loved what happened against the Rockets (33-25), who built a gaping lead in the third quarter behind James Harden. But the Lakers dominated the fourth quarter by limiting the Rockets to 36.8 percent shooting and forcing six turnovers. James finished with 29 points, 11 rebounds and 6 assists.“He’s had more of a serious focus on his face, about him, the last two days, even in the practice facility,” Walton said, adding: “I think he recognizes where we’re at and the sense of urgency we need to play with.”The Lakers also benefited from the fresh presence of Reggie Bullock, a versatile wing whom they acquired from the Detroit Pistons at the trade deadline. Bullock scored 14 points and defended the Rockets’ James Harden for long stretches. For a team that lacks much experience, Bullock could make a difference moving forward.“He’s a vet,” James said. “It’s great to have a shooter of his caliber, of his size; his competitive nature out on the floor. He was big for us.”The Lakers left Staples Center two and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final playoff spot in the West. But James expressed supreme confidence as the team prepared to visit the Pelicans on Saturday.“I like where I’m at,” he said. “I will love where I’m at in the next few games, and I believe — continue to get better and better.”As for his teammates — well, that is up to them.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressAUGUSTA, Ga. — Tiger Woods won his 15th major championship at age 43 by walking away from Augusta National Sunday with his fifth Masters green jacket. Here are some other notable over-40 champions:— Kareem Abdul-Jabbar: Helped push the Los Angeles Lakers to two NBA titles in 1987 and 1988 at the ages of 40 and 41.— Tom Brady: The NFL quarterback Lead the New England Patriots to a Super Bowl win over the Los Angeles Rams in February at 41 years of age.— Chris Chelios: Helped the Detroit Red Wings win the NHL Stanley Cup in 2002 at age 40.— Dale Earnhardt: The NASCAR driver won two Winston Cup titles in 1993 and 1994 at the age of 42 and 43.— George Foreman: He became the heavyweight boxing champion of the world in 1994 at 45 years old by knocking out Michael Moorer.— Ben Hogan: Won three golf majors over the age of 40, including the Masters, U.S. Open and the British Open.— Jack Nicklaus: The Golden Bear is the most obvious comparable to Woods. He won the 1986 Masters at 46 years old. It was his 18th and final major victory.— Dave Winfield: Won a World Series with the Toronto Blue Jays in 1992 at age 41.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideIn a rookie season that has resembled a seismograph, Knicks forward Kevin Knox needed a performance like Sunday’s against the Los Angeles Lakers. He scored 19 points with an array of shots, slashing to the basket, hitting a step-back 3-pointer while guarded by LeBron James and finishing with finesse on a driving, left-handed layup.“Hello, Kevin Knox. It was good to see him play well,” Knicks Coach David Fizdale said. “He’s had his bumps. We know it’s there, it’s in there. It’s just a matter of the ball going in and him getting his confidence up. But I really thought he came with a mind-set that he was going to get out of this rut. The way he was attacking, the force he was playing with.”Knox shot 8 of 14 from the field and 3 of 5 from 3-point range in the Knicks’ 124-123 victory over the Lakers, their 14th win in a dismal season.“I’d been struggling a little bit, but the whole team and coaching staff had confidence in me,” Knox said. “I came to work every single day, got up extra shots. I knew I was going to come out of the streak, so I just wanted to make sure I kept shooting.”Last year the Knicks selected Knox, a freshman from Kentucky, in the first round of the draft, ninth over all. After an ankle sprain sidelined him at the start of the season, Knox’s play took off in December, when he averaged 17.1 points and was named the Eastern Conference rookie of the month.Knox, 19, hit the rookie wall beginning in mid-January, with a 20-game stretch in which he shot 31.8 percent from the field and 27.7 from beyond the 3-point arc. The slump started soon after he scored 31 points, his highest total in the N.B.A., during a game against the Philadelphia 76ers.Shortly before that, Knox had said that he was still learning how to adjust to the demands of the long N.B.A. schedule and its 48-minute games, compared with a 40 minutes in college and A.A.U. ball.“It’s totally different,” he said in late December. “Eight minutes doesn’t seem like a lot, but it really is. That’s a whole quarter almost. Eight minutes is a long time in basketball.”To improve his fitness, Knox did extra sprints after practice and spent more time on the treadmill, running spurts of 15 minutes with the last two as fast as he could.At various points in the season, Fizdale has brought in former Knicks greats like Bernard King, Patrick Ewing, Bill Bradley and Walt Frazier to speak to his young, struggling team. (The coach, who was a Miami Heat assistant coach when James played for them, also made a point of introducing Knox to the Lakers star after Sunday’s game.)King, who was with the Knicks for five seasons in the mid-1980s, and was known for his seemingly unstoppable baseline turnaround jump shot, has focused especially on mentoring Knox.In between their meetings early in the season, Knox studied online video highlights from King’s career.“He helps my game, every time I talk to him,” Knox said. “He’s kind of like me, a wing that gets to the basket, loves transition. He kind of reminds me of myself.”Perhaps the other way around, rook.Knox said he had sought out his own tutors as well, connecting with Chris Bosh, Grant Hill, Jalen Rose, Carmelo Anthony and former Kentucky players for bits of advice during the trying moments.After Monday night’s 128-92 loss in Toronto, the Knicks had 11 games left in the season, all of them meaningless, except for their effect on the draft. The three teams with the lowest win totals will each have a 14 percent of landing the No. 1 selection in June, which presumably will be the Duke freshman Zion Williamson.The Knicks, who have the worst record in the league (14-57), are expected to lose their way into one of those slots, even after that uplifting win against the Lakers, which ended when the Knicks’ Mario Hezonja blocked a shot by James in the waning seconds.“We had a lot of ups and downs this season,” Knox said afterward. “It was big-time win, the first sweep of the season. It’s just a great way to win in the Garden, in the last 10 seconds, against one of the best players to ever play the game and we get a defensive stop with the crowd standing up yelling.”At a critical stretch in the fourth quarter, the Knicks had its three rookies on the court — Knox, center Mitchell Robinson, guard Allonzo Trier — plus guard Kadeem Allen, who was just called up from the Westchester developmental team, and forward Lance Thomas, the longest-tenured Knick.“There’s a process that needs to happen, and ours is growth, making sure the young guys are getting the experience they need in order to be good in this league,” Thomas said. “A lot of young guys don’t get to play especially extended minutes in their first year. It’s a learning experience for young guys. Our goal is to fast-track them.”Knox is sixth in the league among rookies in minutes played per game, at 28, despite shooting a subpar 36.4 percent from the field and struggling with weakside defense. He is averaging 12.3 points with 4.3 rebounds.Even so, Fizdale has never considered sending Knox to Westchester to work on his game in the anonymity of the G League “because our team was already like a glorified G League team,” Fizdale told reporters last week. Because his rookies played substantial minutes all season, he said, he thought it was better for them to take their knocks against the best.Such as James on Sunday and Toronto’s Kawhi Leonard on Monday.“Welcome to the league, kid,” Fizdale said. “This is what it’s about. This is why I wanted him in this. Take those lumps now. Later on in his career, no one will remember this stuff when he is the guy beating up on kids. This is all good for him.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — The Los Angeles Lakers and head coach Luke Walton have agreed to part ways after the team posted a disappointing 37-45 record and failed to end a playoff drought stretching back to 2013.Walton spent three seasons at the helm of a team that struggled to find the right pieces to complement 15-time All-Star LeBron James in his first season in Los Angeles. "We would like to thank Luke for his dedicated service over the last three years," Lakers general manager Rob Pelinka said in a press release issued on Friday. "We wish Luke and his family the best of luck moving forward." Walton said he was grateful to team owner Jeanie Buss for the chance to coach the team, where he won two championships as a player. "I want to thank Jeanie Buss and the Buss family for giving me the opportunity to coach the Lakers," he said."This franchise and the city will always be special to me and my family."Former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue is seen as an early frontrunner for the job, according to ESPN. Lue, who won two championships with the Lakers as a player, coached James to a championship with the Cavaliers in 2016.(This story corrects number of seasons Walton was Lakers coach in para 2)  (Reporting by Rory Carroll; Editing by Ken Ferris)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired Thursday after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said. "On behalf of the entire Kings organization, I want to thank Dave for his contributions to our team and I wish him all the best."Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs.The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final spot.Joerger, 45, has six years of NBA head coaching experience, the first three with Memphis (2013-16) and the next three in Sacramento. His overall coaching record is 245-247 and 98-148 with the Kings.His dismissal came on the same day that Divac and the Kings agreed to a four-year contract through the 2022-23 season, according to The Athletic.Divac, who became GM in early 2015, has built a nucleus of promising young players that includes Marvin Bagley III, Buddy Hield, De'Aaron Fox and Bogdan Bogdanovic.Divac, 51, played 16 seasons in the NBA for the Kings, Los Angeles Lakers and Charlotte Hornets. He will be enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in September.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAnthony Davis has informed the New Orleans Pelicans that the Knicks are one of four teams he would be willing to sign with for the long term if he is dealt before Thursday’s trade deadline, according to a person with knowledge of his intentions who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.Davis, one of the league’s superstars in his seventh season in New Orleans, is the biggest name in play in advance of the deadline. He requested to be traded Jan. 28, with the Los Angeles Lakers pushing hardest to get a deal done.The Lakers, along with the Knicks, Los Angeles Clippers and Milwaukee Bucks, are Davis’s preferred trade destinations as he seeks a new home on a team that already has an established star or a path to acquiring multiple stars, according to the person, who was not permitted to discuss the plans publicly.The list of teams, though, is clearly topped by the Lakers. It was first reported Monday by The Athletic and ESPN.It is believed that the list of teams was given to the Pelicans in hopes of increasing the chances Davis is dealt this week. New Orleans has considerable incentive to delay trading Davis until closer to the draft in June, when the Boston Celtics — who are not on the list but have the biggest cache of trade assets for Davis — are eligible to trade for him.While Kyrie Irving is on the Celtics’ roster, Boston cannot trade for Davis since both he and Irving are under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. League rules only allow teams to have one such player on their rosters.ESPN has reported that the Celtics are urging the Pelicans to hold onto Davis until after the season to give them an opportunity to top the Lakers’ best offer, which is expected to feature the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma as well as future first-round draft picks.Even with the Lakers seemingly established as Davis’s most likely landing spot, the Knicks’ presence on the list provides a glimmer of hope in what has been a difficult season, especially over the past week, for Knicks fans. As The Times first reported, the Knicks traded their star forward, Kristaps Porzingis, to the Dallas Mavericks last week in a move that appears largely aimed at clearing cap space to make way for high-profile free agents this summer.Yet with the worst record in the league (10-42), and after years of dysfunction, the Knicks cannot be certain they will pique the interest of any of the notable players expected to be free agents this summer, such as Kevin Durant, Irving and Kawhi Leonard.Trading for Davis is realistically only possible if the Knicks win the draft lottery in May and are then willing to trade the No. 1 overall pick to New Orleans for the draft in June. But the Knicks will hope that Davis’s interest and the mere prospect of trading for him can make them a more attractive destination for the league’s top free agents.Though he has missed New Orleans’ last seven games with a finger injury, Davis is in the midst of another outstanding season. In 41 games, he is averaging career highs in points (29.3), rebounds (13.3) and assists (4.4) per game.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Los Angeles Lakers and coach Luke Walton mutually parted ways on Friday, general manager Rob Pelinka announced in a statement.Walton's status had been tenuous, even before Magic Johnson resigned as president of basketball operations on Tuesday. Lakers owner Jeanie Buss was reportedly ready to OK a departure after previously being fully supportive of Walton."We would like to thank Luke for his dedicated service over the last three years," Pelinka said in a statement. "We wish Luke and his family the best of luck moving forward."Walton compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three seasons."I want to thank Jeanie Buss and the Buss family for giving me the opportunity to coach the Lakers," Walton said in a statement. "This franchise and the city will always be special to me and my family."The Lakers went 37-45 this season in a disappointing first campaign of the LeBron James era.Los Angeles was 20-14 when James suffered a groin injury during a Christmas Day win over the Golden State Warriors and the team's fortunes plummeted from there.Walton may not be unemployed for a long period as the Sacramento Kings are reportedly interested in interviewing him for their opening.The Kings went 39-43 this season and fired coach Dave Joerger. They have an impressive young group led by point guard De'Aaron Fox, shooting guard Buddy Hield and power forward Marvin Bagley III.Among the candidates for the Lakers' post is former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and Philadelphia 76ers assistant coach Monty Williams.Lue coached James for parts of three seasons in Cleveland -- including the franchise's 2016 NBA Finals title -- while Williams coached the New Orleans Pelicans for five seasons.Williams also is reported a candidate for the Sacramento job.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersMagic Johnson announced his resignation as Los Angeles Lakers president of basketball operations Tuesday night at an impromptu news conference before the team's regular-season finale.Johnson, a Hall of Famer from his playing days with the Lakers, said he is resigning because he doesn't enjoy the job."I was happier when I wasn't the president (of the Lakers)," the 59-year-old said.His announcement came on the heels of an ESPN report that he and coach Luke Walton have not spoken for weeks.Johnson said team owner Jeanie Buss had not been told of his decision in advance. He expressed his affection for Buss, saying, "I knew I couldn't be face-to-face and tell her. I couldn't stand to tell her."He was annoyed by being sanctioned by the NBA for tampering when talking to or about players on other teams.Johnson added about the day-to-day NBA business, "What I didn't like is the backstabbing and the whispering. I don't like a lot of things that went on that didn't have to go on."I hope that after (the season ends), the Lakers can head in the right direction, which we are. Injuries really hurt us, but I enjoyed working with Jeanie."Walton's future is in jeopardy after he failed to lead the Lakers to the postseason in the first season with LeBron James on the team. The Lakers entered the Tuesday night game against the Portland Trail Blazers with a 37-44 record.Walton, 39, is set to wrap up his third consecutive sub-.500 season with Los Angeles. He entered Tuesday with a career record of 98-147 for a .400 winning percentage.Buss has been a strong proponent of Walton but previously said she planned to let Johnson and general manager Rob Pelinka decide his future, according to ESPN. She said during a radio interview last week, "I will always defer to Magic."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAnthony Davis has the Knicks on equal footing with the Los Angeles Lakers as he considers what teams he would be willing to join on a long-term deal after securing a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans, according to two people with knowledge of Davis’s thinking.A trade to any team did not appear imminent Wednesday night, as Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline drew near. But Davis’s recent request to be traded did not include a demand that the move happen before the deadline, according to the people, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the situation publicly.The Knicks have won only one playoff series over the past 18 seasons and their public image has suffered under the ownership of James L. Dolan. But the lure of playing in one of the league’s most attractive markets along with the way the Knicks have positioned themselves to pursue marquee free agents after trading away their franchise player, Kristaps Porzingis, have resonated with Davis, according to the people.The Lakers had been aggressively trying to complete a trade for Davis with the Pelicans before the deadline, because the Boston Celtics — who have been planning a trade run at Davis for months — cannot trade for the All-Star forward while Kyrie Irving is on the Celtics’ roster. (Davis and Irving are both playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions; league rules preclude teams from fielding more than one such player.)The Lakers, however, backed out of trade talks for Davis on Tuesday, according to The Los Angeles Times. ESPN reported Wednesday night that there had been no communication Wednesday between New Orleans General Manager Dell Demps and Lakers President Magic Johnson.The Knicks, who unsuccessfully attempted to interest New Orleans in a Porzingis-headlined trade for Davis last month, could still make offers for Davis up to Thursday’s deadline. But they might fare better after the draft lottery in May, when the Knicks’ position in the June 20 draft is cemented.Thanks in part to the Porzingis trade, the Knicks have amassed seven first-round picks over the next five years to go with a core of promising young players headlined by Kevin Knox and the newly acquired Dennis Smith Jr. Skepticism permeates the Knicks’ fan base as the team appears headed toward its sixth successive non-playoff season, but their trade assets position the Knicks to make a legitimate run at Davis before a big free-agent summer. In the off-season, the Knicks plan to use the significant salary-cap space opened by the Porzingis deal to pursue marquee free agents such as Golden State’s Kevin Durant and Irving in Boston.The Knicks are aware of Davis’s strong interest in playing in New York, according to the people. Either way, though, Davis is leaning toward playing out his current contract and becoming a free agent in July 2020 no matter where he is traded.Since Davis lodged his trade request on Jan. 28, there have been numerous reports that he is not willing to sign a long-term contract with the Celtics, but Sports Illustrated and the Boston Herald were among the news media outlets to report this week that Celtics officials had urged the Pelicans to hold off on trading Davis until the off-season, insisting that Boston could produce an offer that would trump any competing proposals.The Los Angeles Clippers and the Milwaukee Bucks are the other two teams, along with the Lakers and Knicks, with whom Davis has indicated a willingness to sign for the long term.Davis has missed six games with a finger injury but was seeking to play in both of New Orleans’ games this week. The Pelicans, however, opted to hold Davis out while working on trades and have not yet disclosed whether they plan to allow Davis to return to the lineup if he is not traded this week. Davis, according to a person with knowledge of his thinking, would like to play out the season with the Pelicans if no trade materializes before the deadline, despite the fact that the injury risk would be significant for both player and team.The trade saga has rocked both the Pelicans and the Lakers. Los Angeles suffered a 42-point defeat Tuesday night amid the constant speculation about the Lakers trying to package Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma with draft picks to acquire Davis with a goal of pairing one of the game’s best big men with the LeBron James. Both Davis and James are represented by the agent Rich Paul.Despite having missed 14 games through injury, Davis is in the midst of another outstanding season. In 41 games, he is averaging career highs in points (29.3), rebounds (13.3) and assists (4.4) per game and has been selected by Western Conference coaches to appear in the Feb. 17 All-Star Game in Charlotte.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Field Level MediaKareem Abdul-Jabbar, the Hall of Fame center, has put four N.B.A. championship rings and other memorabilia up for auction.Abdul-Jabbar, 71, wrote on his website this month that “much of the proceeds” would benefit his Skyhook Foundation, a charity that helps children learn about science, technology, engineering and math.The rings up for bid are the ones he won with the Los Angeles Lakers in 1980, ’85, ’87 and ’88. Abdul-Jabbar also won league championships in 1971 with the Milwaukee Bucks and in 1982 with the Lakers. Game-used and autographed items — including All-Star rings and uniforms — from his career are also available at the auction, which runs through Saturday.“When it comes to choosing between storing a championship ring or trophy in a room, or providing kids with an opportunity to change their lives, the choice is pretty simple. Sell it all,” wrote Abdul-Jabbar, who is the N.B.A.’s career scoring leader.“Looking back on what I have done with my life, instead of gazing at the sparkle of jewels or gold plating celebrating something I did a long time ago, I’d rather look into the delighted face of a child holding their first caterpillar and think about what I might be doing for their future.”The auction is being conducted by Goldin Auctions. As of Tuesday afternoon, the bidding on his ring from the 1985 N.B.A. championship was up to $85,000, and the bidding on a signed basketball from his final N.B.A. game in 1989 was up to $75,000.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLuke Walton will become coach of the Sacramento Kings, securing another NBA head coaching job just a day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers following three losing seasons.The 39-year-old Walton was dismissed by the Lakers on Friday after Los Angeles went 37-45. His move to the Kings was confirmed to The Associated Press on Saturday by a person who spoke on condition of anonymity because it hadn't been finalized. A formal announcement from the Kings is expected in the next couple of days.Sacramento general manager Vlade Divac fired Dave Joerger on Thursday after the coach helped develop the young Kings into playoff contenders before ultimately falling short in the franchise's 13th straight losing season.Also Thursday, the Kings extended Divac's contract through the 2022-23 season — and Walton's deal is expected to run those same four years.Sacramento features several talented young players acquired by Divac: guards De'Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield, forward Marvin Bagley III and center Willie Cauley-Stein. The Kings finished 39-43, nine games out of a playoff spot after being tied for the Western Conference's eighth seed heading into the final game before the All-Star break.Sacramento had its most wins since going 44-38 in 2005-06 during coach Rick Adelman's final season. That ended a run of eight straight playoff berths and Sacramento hasn't been back to the postseason since for the NBA's longest active drought.Walton, a former Lakers forward, went 98-148 after getting his first permanent head coaching job with the 16-time NBA champions. The former Golden State top assistant never led the Lakers to the playoffs, not even after the arrival of LeBron James last summer.He certainly has coached some of the game's biggest stars and egos.Many considered him the unofficial Coach of the Year for his guidance of the then-champion Warriors at the start of the 2015-16 season in place of an ailing Steve Kerr. Golden State began with a record 24-0 start and Walton was 39-4 overall before Kerr returned to the bench following complications from a pair of back surgeries.Walton's departure came three days after the Lakers finished with a loss Tuesday to the Trail Blazers and the abrupt resignation of team president Magic Johnson.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — Kentavious Caldwell-Pope scored 32 points and the short-handed Los Angeles Lakers snapped Utah's seven-game winning streak with a 113-109 victory Sunday night over the playoff-bound Jazz.The Lakers, beset by injuries all season, dressed only 10 players and played eight. Caldwell-Pope, one of five Lakers in double figures, scored 18 points during the fourth quarter as Los Angeles rallied for its second consecutive win. JaVale McGee added 22 points and Alex Caruso had 18 points and 11 assists.It was a big loss for the Jazz, who fell two games behind Portland for the fourth seed in the Western Conference and home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs. Rudy Gobert led Utah with 21 points and 10 rebounds, and Donovan Mitchell scored 19.Utah led 85-81 early in the fourth when the Lakers scored eight straight points to take the lead. The run included 3-pointers by Mike Muscala and Caldwell-Pope.Los Angeles extended its advantage to 106-97 with 1:57 remaining on a layup by Caldwell-Pope. The Jazz made a late run to get to 110-107 before McGee's alley-oop put the Lakers up by more than one possession.Utah led 59-54 at halftime after going on a late run to close the first half. The Lakers came back to tie it at 63 before Gobert scored eight points during a 15-5 spurt to give the Jazz their largest lead at 78-68 with 4:51 remaining in the third.Los Angeles answered by scoring 10 straight points to tie it, including six by Johnathan Williams, before the Jazz took the lead again.TIP-INSJazz: Georges Niang had 16 points and Thabo Sefolosha scored 13. ... Jae Crowder, who had 11 points, hit a shot from halfcourt to end the third quarter but it was overturned when replays showed he didn't get it off in time. ... G Ricky Rubio missed the game after he sustained a bruised left quad during Friday's win over Sacramento.Lakers: Muscala scored 16 points and Williams had 14. ... G Lance Stephenson (sore left foot) and F Reggie Bullock (neck stiffness) did not play due to injuries.UP NEXTJazz: Host Denver on Tuesday in their final home game of the regular season.Lakers: Finish the season Tuesday at home against Portland.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDwyane Wade ended his storied career with a triple-double of 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists Wednesday night as the visiting Miami Heat were dealt a 113-94 loss to the Brooklyn Nets, who clinched sixth place in the Eastern Conference.The Nets honored Wade with a video tribute in pregame introductions by highlighting some of his notable shots against them over the course of a 16-year career while the text on the screen read "Thanks for the Memories."With longtime friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony sitting courtside, Wade recorded his fifth career triple-double in his 1,054th regular-season game since entering the league as the fifth overall pick out of Marquette in 2003.Wade played 36 minutes and received a loud hand from fans each time he touched the ball. He made 10 of 28 shots, and his last points were a 3-pointer with 2:48 remaining.Wade exited the court for the last time with 10 seconds remaining. Before leaving the court, he embraced teammates on the floor, then hugged coach Erik Spoelstra and waved to the crowd.After the final buzzer, Wade exchanged hugs at midcourt with Anthony, James, and Paul and posed with pictures with his longtime friends. He then gave his jersey to Anthony.Appropriately, Wade reached his first triple-double since Jan. 13, 2006, by connecting with longtime teammate Udonis Haslem for a jumper in the final minute of the third quarter.Brooklyn (42-40) secured the sixth seed and will open its first postseason series since 2014-15 this weekend in Philadelphia. The Nets also clinched their first winning season since 2013-14 by going 34-22 over their last 56 games since Dec. 7.D'Angelo Russell, who ended his rookie season by appearing in Kobe Bryant's last game in 2016 with the Los Angeles Lakers, led the Nets with 21 points.After Brooklyn took a 63-47 lead into halftime, Russell hit four three 3-pointers in the first two minutes of the third quarter, including three in a span of 46 seconds, as the Nets extended their lead to 75-50. Brooklyn brought a 92-71 edge into the fourth.Miami opened the fourth on a 13-5 run and was within 97-84 when Wade re-entered the game with 7:20 left.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe NBA rescinded technical fouls assessed to Golden State Warriors star Kevin Durant and Los Angeles Clippers forward JaMychal Green on Friday after reviewing a call made during Thursday night's game.Durant and Green were exchanging words during the third quarter when the double-technical was called, stunning both players.The decision to rescind was announced from the league's @NBAOfficial account on Twitter.The change was good for Durant, as he already received two technicals earlier in the series. An accumulation of seven technicals during the postseason carries an automatic one-game suspension. He had lobbied for the technicals to be rescinded after Thursday's 132-105 victory.--Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, who missed Game 3 of his team's first-round playoff series against the Brooklyn Nets on Thursday night because of left knee soreness, is listed as doubtful for Game 4 on Saturday. The NBA announced his status in its injury report.Embiid's status has digressed from the first three games when he was listed as questionable. He continues to deal with left knee tendinitis, a problem throughout the regular season, when he missed 14 of the Sixers' 24 games after the All-Star break.Despite Embiid's absence in Game 3, the visiting 76ers rolled to a 131-115 victory over the host Nets to take a 2-1 lead. Greg Monroe started in Embiid's place and collected nine points on 4-for-13 shooting and grabbed 13 rebounds. Game 4 of the best-of-seven will also be played in Brooklyn before the series shifts to Philadelphia on Tuesday.--The status of Detroit Pistons forward Blake Griffin remains uncertain entering Saturday's Game 3 of the team's Eastern Conference first-round series against the Milwaukee Bucks.Griffin missed the first two games with a left knee injury, and coach Dwane Casey didn't shed any light on whether the six-time All-Star will return on Saturday for the eighth-seeded Pistons, who lost the first two games of the series in Milwaukee by an average of 28 points."Day-to-day. I'm not talking about Blake," Casey told reporters after Friday's practice. "Day-to-day. Same old words. Just like I am on coaching -- day-to-day."--Former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue was scheduled to interview with the Los Angeles Lakers for their head coaching vacancy, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.The Lakers fired coach Luke Walton last week after three seasons and a 98-148 record.Lue, who previously served as an assistant coach for the Boston Celtics, L.A. Clippers and Cavaliers, became head coach in Cleveland during the 2015-16 season after David Blatt was fired.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThere's no LeBron James in these playoffs, so the NBA Finals will have a distinctly new look for the first time in nine years.There's no Tony Parker, for the first time in nearly two decades.There's no Dwyane Wade, and he'll never play a playoff game again.San Antonio is in the postseason for a record-tying 22nd consecutive season. Brooklyn, Denver, Detroit, Orlando and the Los Angeles Clippers got into these playoffs after watching the postseason last year.As always at playoff time, there are some familiar things and some not-so-familiar things. With the postseason set to begin Saturday, here's 10 things to know going into the best time of the NBA year:DRIVE FOR FIVEGolden State is trying to reach the NBA Finals for the fifth consecutive season.If the Warriors get there, they would be the second franchise ever with such a streak — joining only the Boston Celtics, who went there in 10 straight seasons from 1957-66.The Warriors are one of five franchises with a streak of four straight NBA Finals trips: the Los Angeles Lakers did it from 1982-85, the Celtics also did it from 1984-87, the Miami Heat did it from 2011-14 and the Cleveland Cavaliers did it from 2015-18.Golden State is also seeking its seventh championship in franchise history. That would put the Warriors in sole possession of third place on the NBA's most-titles list, behind Boston (17) and the Lakers (16).The Warriors and Chicago are currently tied for third with six championships each.BLOWOUT BUCKSMilwaukee had 45 double-digit wins this season, the most in the NBA.That's a really good omen for the Bucks.Only four teams in NBA history have posted more double-digit wins in a regular season than the Bucks this year. Those clubs are the 1971-72 Los Angeles Lakers (50), the 2016-17 Golden State Warriors (48), the 1970-71 Bucks (47) and the 1995-96 Chicago Bulls (46).All four of those teams went on to win the NBA championship.MR. 3000?Houston's James Harden scored 2,818 points in the regular season, which puts him on the cusp of joining a very elite club.If Harden scores 182 in the playoffs, that will give him a total of 3,000 — and he would be the 10th player in NBA history to score that many in a full season, postseason included. The others: Michael Jordan (10 times), Wilt Chamberlain (five times), Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Rick Barry, Elgin Baylor, Kobe Bryant, Kevin Durant, Bob McAdoo and Shaquille O'Neal.Durant was the last to do it, in 2013-14.LeBron James almost got into the club last year, coming as close as humanly possible — he scored 2,999 points for Cleveland.WELCOME BACKKawhi Leonard's last postseason appearance ended earlier than planned, when he hurt his left ankle while taking a jumper over Golden State's Zaza Pachulia in Game 1 of the 2017 Western Conference finals. Pachulia closed out aggressively, Leonard didn't have space to land safely and he missed the rest of that series.When Leonard left the game, he and San Antonio were up by 23. The Spurs lost that lead, lost the game, lost the series and Leonard never played a postseason second with the Spurs again after that bad landing.Toronto is hoping that Leonard can rekindle his typical postseason magic in his playoff return.Leonard enters these playoffs with a 32-game streak of double-digit postseason outings, averaging 24.1 points in those contests.STEPH RISINGWarriors guard Stephen Curry is on pace to catch Ray Allen and become the NBA's all-time 3-point leader sometime in the 2020-21 season.That stat only takes regular-season games into account. In the postseason, Curry is about to become No. 1.Curry has 378 career postseason 3s, good for No. 2 on the NBA's all-time playoff list. Allen is No. 1, with 385.PLAYOFF CASHThe 16 playoff teams are playing for the Larry O'Brien Trophy, for rings, for a parade ... and for a stake of $21,676,510.That's the amount of this year's NBA Playoff Pool — a record.Every playoff team is assured of some of the pie, which is often used to fund bonuses for players and team staff.So far, all 16 teams are due at least $323,506 each. Most have already clinched much more because finishing in the top six spots in each conference also comes with a bonus. For example, Milwaukee — because it had the best record in the NBA — is already due $1,495,750.Teams get an additional $384,930 for winning a first-round series. Conference finalists get another $638,094. The losing team in the NBA Finals gets another $2,543,681 and the NBA champs get one more payout of $3,838,798.Add it all up, and the Bucks could get $6,355,572 if they win the title. No other team can win that much.HOUSTON, A PROBLEM?Houston is the No. 4 seed in the Western Conference, and faces No. 5 seed Utah in the first round.History suggests the Rockets are in trouble.In each of the last seven seasons, and nine of the last 10, the No. 5 team in the West has beaten the No. 4 team in the first round.Utah has won each of its last five appearances in a 4-versus-5 series. The fifth-seeded Jazz knocked off Oklahoma City in 2018, the Los Angeles Clippers in 2017 and Denver in 2010. The Jazz were seeded No. 4 when they won a 4-versus-5 series in 2007 and 2008 — both of those coming against Houston.BOOGIE'S DEBUTDeMarcus Cousins is No. 1 on a list that nobody wants to lead.By this weekend, he'll be off the list entirely.Cousins has played in 565 regular-season games and zero postseason games. That'll change this weekend when he and Golden State play host to the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 1 of a Western Conference first-round series.No active NBA player has been in more regular-season games without a playoff appearance than Cousins. When he plays for the Warriors this weekend, and when Kyle O'Quinn — currently No. 2 on the list with 443 regular-season games without a postseason minute — plays for Indiana, the new active leader in games played without a postseason appearance will be Brandon Knight.He's played in 421 and is still looking for his first playoff outing.MILESTONE COMINGSometime in the next couple of months, the 4,000th playoff game in NBA history will be played.There have been 3,934 postseason contests so far. Based on the way last season went, the milestone game will come late in the conference-semifinal round or early in the conference-final round.FINALS STARTThis season's NBA Finals start May 30. It'll be the earliest Game 1 of the title series since 1986, when Boston and Houston opened their series on May 26.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Los Angeles Lakers held exit interviews with the media on Wednesday, fresh off a disappointing season and the drama of Tuesday night, when team president Magic Johnson abruptly stepped down before the final game."We had moments where we were really, really good and we had moments where we were really, really bad," forward Brandon Ingram said."Because of what went on throughout the schedule, which was crazy, I think that ultimately helps us out and brings us even closer for next year. I'm not sure who is going to return, but for the guys who are, I know they going to feel that feeling of like we could have won games."But much is up in the air a day after the Lakers ended with a 37-45 record and missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season. Who will run the team? Who will coach the team? Luke Walton, after his third season on the bench, did not meet with the media Wednesday."I think Luke did a hell of a job, with what he had, the cards he was dealt," point guard Rajon Rondo said. "Guys fought every night."The Lakers, who pursued New Orleans Pelicans star Anthony Davis at the trading deadline, will want to make a big offseason splash, which could suit the desires of superstar LeBron James.The Lakers were 20-14 and in fourth place in the Western Conference after beating the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day, when James suffered a groin injury that cost him the next 17 games.Ingram didn't play after March 2 and under underwent thoracic outlet decompression surgery after he was diagnosed with deep venous thrombosis, which involved a blood clot that caused shoulder pain.Point guard Lonzo Ball didn't play after Jan. 19 because of a left ankle injury. He wore a black hat with the words "Don't Forget Me" to his media interview Wednesday."I think those two weeks before I got hurt, I kind of figured it out," said Ball, whose name has been mentioned in trade possibilities. "I felt I was playing the basketball I was capable of playing and unfortunately I got hurt and couldn't come back."The other big question around Ball is whether he will continue to do business with his father, LaVar Ball, and the family's Big Baller Brand."We're still talking about it," Lonzo Ball said. "Right now, I'm not really too focused on that. I'm more focused on just being healthy, getting right for the summer. We'll get around to it."Ball said he looked at James -- who signed a four-year, $154 million deal last offseason -- as a "big brother.""It was a dream come true for me," Ball said of playing with James. "Obviously, his IQ is off the charts, so he's not hard to play with at all."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported by76ers 145, Nets 123 | Series tied, 1-1By Kelly WhitesideAfter the Philadelphia 76ers were booed off their home court in the opener of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series, Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson had a feeling that they would punch back hard in Game 2.“We expect a haymaker,” Atkinson said. “They’re too good, too well-coached. How are we going to react to it?” Atkinson said. As it turned out, not very well.Propelled by a 51-point third quarter that tied an N.B.A. playoff record set by the Los Angeles Lakers back in 1962, the 76ers flattened the Nets, 145-123, on Monday night to even their series at a game apiece. The 145 points by the Sixers also set a playoff franchise record; likewise it was the most points the Nets have allowed in a playoff game.It was that kind of night.The Nets had looked strong early in the game, trailing by just a point at halftime — 65-64 — but then came the 51-point onslaught in the third quarter. “I thought we did a good job holding the fort in the first half,” Atkinson said. “The third quarter was the story of the game.”Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown said he thought the 76ers’ defense was the difference in the game, although the final score would suggest otherwise. Still, he cited guard Ben Simmons’s play against Nets star D’Angelo Russell, who was held scoreless in the second half.Simmons finished with 18 points, 10 rebounds and 12 assists after struggling in Game 1. Meanwhile, Joel Embiid had 23 points and 10 points for the Sixers after being limited to 24 minutes in Game 1.In Game 2, he looked more comfortable, bullying Nets center Jarrett Allen with his big body and sharp elbows, though one of those elbows led to him being charged with a flagrant foul.In any case, there was no booing by the Philadelphia fans on Monday. By the fourth quarter, with the game in hand for their team, the stands began to empty. With the series now tied at 1-1, the 76ers head to Brooklyn for games on Thursday and Saturday. And they would seem to have the momentum.Indeed, with their dominating win on Monday, the 76ers distanced themselves from their playoff-opening flop and looked more like a team with the East’s most talented starting lineup — Embiid, Simmons, Jimmy Butler, Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick.Philadelphia also distanced itself from the criticism that erupted when 76ers center Amir Johnson was caught by TV cameras scrolling through his phone late in the fourth quarter of Game 1 with his team trailing. Johnson turned to Embiid on the bench and showed him the message on his phone. Johnson was subsequently fined for “conduct detrimental to the team” and he apologized in a statement.Simmons also faced criticism after the series opener for his comments about the boos that filled Wells Fargo Center as the Nets pulled away. “If you’re going to boo, then stay on that side,” Simmons said. “That’s how I feel. If you’re a Sixers fan and you’re going to boo, stay on that side.”On Monday, those boos were replaced by cheers. And by a lot of Sixers baskets.And for the Nets, it was a humbling experience. Certainly, the third quarter was. “We can’t have another third quarter like we did,” Allen said. “We just let it blow open.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — A flight was awaiting Miami Heat President Pat Riley on Saturday, just as he hoped.It just wasn't to Toronto or Milwaukee for Game 1 of a playoff series. That's the problem.Riley's second home in Malibu, California, is one of his happy places — though with the NBA playoffs starting this weekend, Malibu is about the last place he wants be right now. The playoffs aren't on Riley's calendar this season, so he's taking 10 blue notebooks to Malibu and plans to fill them with ideas on how to make sure that's not the case in 2020."I'm going to write and write and write and write," Riley said. "That's where we are for the next couple of weeks. Once the hangover subsides, then we'll have more coherent thought."A challenging offseason awaits the Heat, who went 39-43 this season and will return for training camp in about five months without Dwyane Wade — probably their best player this season, and at times certainly their most important player. Wade is retiring, and if the Heat have plans to remake their roster before next season they'll likely need some willing trade partners to make things happen.Miami already has players signed to about $140 million worth of deals for next season. Flexibility is not something Riley figures to have much of when its time to wheel and deal on the trade and free-agent markets."Very, very disappointed. I'm disappointed in myself. Obviously," Riley said Saturday, as he sat alone on a stage set up on the Heat practice court — one that figures to not be in much use for the next couple weeks while players rest and recover. "This has not come together the way that I thought it would. I thought this year that we would be in the top half of the Eastern Conference."The Heat finished 10th in the East. They beat 13 of the 16 playoff-bound teams — the only ones who swept Miami were Denver (2-0), Indiana (3-0) and Toronto (4-0). But the Heat also lost at least once to nine of the 13 other teams that didn't make the playoffs — going 1-3 against Atlanta, plus 0-2 against the Los Angeles Lakers, Sacramento Kings and Minnesota Timberwolves."There's going to be changes next year," Riley said. "Not a new culture, but tightening the screws on a culture that sometimes erodes just a little bit."Riley said the team is a long way from personnel decisions and draft strategy. The Heat want Dion Waiters slimmer and believe his game would explode if he got into world-class condition. They're still — in what seems like an annual occurrence now — figuring out how best to use Hassan Whiteside, who has a $27.1 million player option for next season. They believe James Johnson will be better. They hope Udonis Haslem returns for a 17th season.But one thing that Riley knows must change is the home record. Miami was awful at home this year, going 19-22. Only five teams were worse, and Riley was bothered by the Heat penchant for getting big leads and then letting them slip away."The last thing I want to do is send our fans into the beautiful night of Miami, cheering like crazy in the first half with a 20-point lead and leaving with a one-point loss," Riley said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy Marc SteinKristaps Porzingis of the Dallas Mavericks is under investigation by the New York Police Department after a recent accusation that he sexually assaulted a woman last season while he was playing for the Knicks, according to two people familiar with the case who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.Porzingis, who had not been charged as of Saturday night, denied the allegation through a statement from his lawyer Roland G. Riopelle.“We are aware of the complaint that was made against Mr. Porzingis on Friday and unequivocally deny the allegation,” Riopelle said. “We made a formal referral to federal law enforcement on December 20, 2018, based on the accuser’s extortionate demands.“We also alerted the National Basketball Association months ago, and they are aware of the ongoing investigation of the accuser by federal law enforcement. We cannot comment further on an ongoing federal investigation.”The N.B.A. spokesman Mike Bass said in a statement that the league was “aware of the situation,” but he did not elaborate.An N.Y.P.D. spokesman would not confirm or address any complaints against a specific individual, saying, “The N.Y.P.D. takes sexual assault and all rape cases extremely seriously, and urges anyone who has been a victim to file a report so we can perform a comprehensive investigation, and offer support and services to survivors.”Mavericks officials declined to comment, and a spokesman for the Knicks said, “This is Kristaps’s personal matter and not related to the Knicks.”The New York Post first reported Saturday that the woman told the police of the suspected attack from Feb. 7, 2018, on Thursday. Porzingis sustained a torn anterior crucial ligament in his left knee while playing for the Knicks on Feb. 6, 2018. The woman, according to the report, said Porzingis assaulted her hours later at the Sky building in Midtown Manhattan where each had a residence.The woman waited more than a year to come forward, according to The Post, because she had discussed receiving a payment of $68,000 from Porzingis. The Post also reported that the woman is in her 20s and that the N.Y.P.D.’s Special Victims Division has taken over the case.The Mavericks acquired the 7-foot-3 Porzingis from the Knicks in a seven-player trade on Jan. 31, but Porzingis has not played this season for either team while recovering from the knee injury. On the call with the league office to complete the blockbuster deal, Dallas was apprised by the Knicks of a potential “extortion issue” with Porzingis, according to one person familiar with the details of the call who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Porzingis will become a restricted free agent in July and is eligible for a five-year maximum contract worth an estimated $160 million from the Mavericks. Team officials have said repeatedly since acquiring Porzingis that they hope to sign him as quickly as possible.LAKERS SHUT DOWN JAMES LeBron James’s disappointing first season as a Los Angeles Laker ended abruptly when the team announced that it would hold him out of its final six games as a health precaution.“After consulting with our team doctors and medical staff, we have decided to hold LeBron out of games for the remainder of the season,” the Lakers said in a statement distributed on Saturday afternoon.“This decision will allow his groin to fully heal, and is best for the future success of both LeBron and the Lakers.”James thus ends his debut season as a Laker with just 55 of a possible 82 games played. He averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists and moved into fourth in career scoring — ahead of Michael Jordan — with 32,543 points.NETS 110, CELTICS 96 D’Angelo Russell scored 20 of his 29 points in another blistering third quarter against Boston, leading the Nets to a victory over short-handed Boston at Barclays Center.Back from a seven-game trip that lasted more than two weeks, the Nets had a happy homecoming largely because of Russell, who added 10 assists and finished with 25 points after halftime.It was the third straight time he hurt the Celtics in the third quarter, and the Nets really needed this one after going 2-5 on the road and dropping into seventh place in the Eastern Conference. They are a half-game behind Detroit and lead eighth-place Miami by a half-game and Orlando by one.“I told you, man, every one is going to be worth it,” Russell said. “We need it, scratching and clawing for every one of them.”Caris LeVert added 15 points for the Nets, who had dropped the final two games of the trip and still face a tough stretch now that they are back home.“We know that all these games coming up are playoff games,” Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “It’s just how we have to look at it. We’re in it. We can’t shy away from it.” (AP)HEAT 100, KNICKS 92 Dion Waiters scored 28 points and Dwyane Wade added 16 in his last game at Madison Square Garden as Miami beat the Knicks.Wade had back-to-back baskets in Miami’s 8-0 run to start the fourth quarter after the game was tied through three. He shot 6 for 16 and added seven rebounds in 27 minutes off the bench.Wade received a nice hand from the crowd when he walked to the scorer’s table for the first time midway through the first quarter. He then received an ovation when he checked into the game with 4 minutes 37 seconds left in the period.The Knicks honored Wade’s 15-year career with a video tribute with 2:47 remaining in the opening period after a Miami timeout. Wade then drove to the basket for his first points of the night.Wade, a 13-time All-Star, bid farewell to the Garden by planting a kiss on the Knicks logo at center court.“You love playing here,” Wade said, adding: “When I played in college, I got the opportunity to play here, the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic. It was just immediately, that feel, and the feel was there.”Emmanuel Mudiay scored 24 points for the Knicks, who have lost six straight and 14 of 15 over all, and eight in a row at home. (AP)HARDEN SCORES 50 James Harden had 50 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists, scoring 10 straight Houston points down the stretch to help the host Rockets beat Sacramento, 119-108.Harden had his 42nd career triple-double and his third 50-point game in the last six. He made seven 3-pointers to become the ninth player in N.B.A. history to reach 2,000 career baskets from beyond the arc.(AP)A 3-POINTER RECORD, AGAIN The N.B.A. set a record for 3-pointers made for the seventh straight year, after the 25,808th of the season was made Saturday night. The league is on pace for about an 8 percent rise in 3-pointers over last season — and 3s are being made 57 percent more often than they were five years ago. (AP)Ali Watkins, Kelly Whiteside and Zolan Kanno-Youngs contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a career-high 37 points in his first start of the season and the Portland Trail Blazers secured the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference with a dramatic 136-131 victory over the Sacramento Kings using just six players Wednesday night.The Blazers have won 14 of 17 games en route to their sixth straight trip to the playoffs. Portland will open the postseason against the Oklahoma City Thunder, who finished in sixth.Portland had already clinched homecourt advantage in the opening round with a 104-101 victory over the Los Angeles Lakers the night before.Denver beat the Timberwolves 99-95 Wednesday night, locking the Nuggets into the No. 2 seed and a first-round series against San Antonio, and giving Portland the opening to claim the third seed. The Jazz secured the No. 4 seed and will play fifth-seeded Houston.Portland trailed by 28 points during the second half but made it interesting in the fourth quarter by closing within 117-116 with 7:53 left on Simon's 3-pointer. Simons found Jake Layman for an alley-oop dunk to pull the Blazers in front.Portland pushed the lead to 128-119 on Layman's basket with 2:49 left. Simons hit his seventh 3-pointer to make it 131-123 with just over two minutes left and Sacramento couldn't catch up.Marvin Bagley III had 20 points to lead the Kings, who lost their 11th straight game in Portland.Blazers coach Terry Stotts said before the game that guard CJ McCollum would rest because it was the second of a back-to-back. McCollum missed 10 games with a left knee injury and had just been back for Portland's last two games.As for his other players, Stotts said going in that it was "fluid." Damian Lillard was available but did not play. Neither did any of the team's other regular starters, as Stotts went with Skal Labissiere, Layman, Meyers Leonard, Gary Trent, Jr. and Simons. Trent, Simons and Labissiere were making their first starts of the season."Our goal was to get homecourt, which we got. Whatever happens tonight, happens," Stotts said. "If you overthink it, you get in trouble."The Kings' season is over, but coach Dave Joerger said he was encouraged."We haven't been great for the last couple of weeks, but I don't want that to dull the shine on what has been a terrific season of development and competitiveness, and competitive spirit, of laying down a foundation and an identity, a lot of success and a lot of good moments," Joerger said. "I feel good about that, and I feel good about where we can be in the future."The Kings stayed with their regular starters and went up by 11 points in the opening quarter. They extended the lead to 26 points during the second and were up 87-62 at the break. Da'Aaron Fox led the Kings with 17 points and nine assists at halftime.Joerger went to his reserves in the second half.TIP-INSKings: Joerger was asked before the game why the Kings had not won in Portland since 2012. He replied: "LaMarcus Aldridge, Damian Lillard, CJ McCollum, Wesley Matthews."Trail Blazers: Sacramento's 87 first-half points were the most Portland had allowed in the half this season. ... Simons became just the 11th rookie in franchise history to have a 30-point game.UP NEXTSacramento's season is over.The Trail Blazers will face the Oklahoma City Thunder in a game TBD.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — Oklahoma City wanted a win to avoid slipping into a first-round playoff matchup against the defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors.The Milwaukee Bucks, with the NBA's best record already clinched, just needed to stay healthy.Everybody got what they wanted Wednesday night.Russell Westbrook posted his 34th triple-double of the season and the Thunder beat the Bucks' backups 127-116 to lock up the sixth seed in the Western Conference playoffs.Oklahoma City (49-33) played without injured Paul George, but Westbrook, Jerami Grant and Dennis Schroder led a hot-shooting effort. Oklahoma City made a franchise-record 23 3-pointers and handed out a franchise-best 40 assists, converting 48 of 99 shots to win their fifth in a row."Good teams always respond," Schroder said. "We do whatever it takes to go out there and compete and play with each other. We live with the result."Now the playoffs come. Now everybody is excited."Westbrook had 15 points, 17 assists and 11 rebounds. He moved into a tie with Magic Johnson for second place on the career triple-double list with 138, behind only Oscar Robertson (181)."It's a blessing," Westbrook said.Schroder was 8-of-15 shooting beyond the arc and had a game-leading 32 points. Grant hit four 3s and added a career-high 28 points.The Bucks (60-22) rested star Giannis Antetokounmpo and some other key players. They found out moments after the game that they would face eighth-seeded Detroit in the first round of the playoffs.The Pistons secured a playoff berth with a win over the New York Knicks on Wednesday.Khris Middleton was the only usual Bucks starter in the starting five, and he scored 21 points in 17 minutes.Point guard Tim Frazier scored a career-high 29 points and added 13 assists for Milwaukee and D.J. Wilson had a career-high 18 points while grabbing 17 rebounds. Rookie Bonzie Colson started and scored 21 points.Middleton said the Bucks are more confident entering the playoffs than they have been in the past. The franchise has not won a playoff series since the 2000-01 season and has not had homecourt advantage in the first round in the last eight first-round series."First place in the league, 60 wins, and we have homecourt," Middleton said. "Forget about the things in the past in some ways. Just keep moving forward."The Bucks finished tied for the third-best record in franchise history and their best since the 1980-81 season."We're just trying to soak it all in right now," said Bucks guard Eric Bledsoe, who was held out Wednesday. "We went through a lot of adversity to get to this point. I'm really proud of this group."TIP-INSThunder: Oklahoma City faced a waiting game to find out its first-round playoff foe. The Thunder had a chance to face Denver, Houston or Portland, depending on results of Wednesday's late games. George did not play after aggravating a right shoulder injury in the Thunder's 112-111 victory over Houston on Tuesday night. George hit the game-winning 3-pointer vs. the Rockets with 1.8 seconds left.Bucks: Antetokounmpo and Brook Lopez sat out the season finale for load management, and point guard Eric Bledsoe did not play. It was the first game Lopez missed after starting all 81 games and it was the 10th game Antetokounmpo missed. ... F Nikola Mirotic could be ready for the start of the playoffs this weekend. Mirotic suffered a fractured left thumb against the Los Angeles Lakers on March 19 and did not play in the final 11 regular-season games. ... G Tony Snell (left ankle sprain) is unlikely to return at the start of the playoffs. Sterling Brown will keep his spot in the starting lineup.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAt the end of a dizzying frenzy of trades in the N.B.A., featuring 24 deals in one week, Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans stayed put — for now.Yet there was plenty of action to make up for the lack of a Davis trade, with two of the four title hopefuls in the Eastern Conference making significant acquisitions before Thursday afternoon’s trade deadline, intensifying the race at the top of the East after Philadelphia’s big trade earlier this week.In the most significant deadline-day deals, Toronto acquired the former All-Star center Marc Gasol from Memphis, while Milwaukee imported the sharpshooting forward Nikola Mirotic from New Orleans as part of a three-team deal that also involved Detroit.Those moves capped a wild seven-day stretch that began with the Knicks’ blockbuster trade of Kristaps Porzingis to Dallas and also included the 76ers’ acquisition of Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers. Philadelphia’s big swing to land Harris, who joined a starting lineup that already featured Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Jimmy Butler and JJ Redick, seemingly forced the Raptors and Bucks, who entered Thursday as the East’s second- and first-place teams, to make their own moves.Milwaukee, Toronto and Philadelphia, along with the Boston Celtics, are jockeying to become the first LeBron James-less team to represent the East in the N.B.A. Finals since 2010.The Sixers, at fifth in the conference standings, didn’t stop at their Harris trade, though. Shortly before the deadline, they made a surprising deal with the Orlando Magic to send the wayward guard Markelle Fultz — whom they selected with the No. 1 overall pick in the 2017 draft — for the small forward Jonathon Simmons and two future draft picks (one in the first round, one in the second).The Celtics, who entered Thursday in third, came away from trade season simply relieved that Davis had not been traded to the Los Angeles Lakers. After a nervy two weeks, during which the Celtics could merely watch because of an obscure league rule, they will now get an opportunity to make a run at Davis in the off-season — although Davis is said to remain adamantly against signing a long-term contract with the Celtics should they trade for him.The Celtics were ineligible to make in-season trade offers for Davis with Kyrie Irving still on their roster, since both Davis and Irving are currently playing under maximum rookie-scale contract extensions; league rules allow teams to field only one such player.The Lakers, however, were unable to persuade the Pelicans to surrender Davis during the exclusive negotiating window they had to pursue him in the wake of Davis’s Jan. 28 request to be traded. The front offices of Los Angeles and New Orleans had no discussions about Davis on deadline day, according to two people familiar with the talks, after negotiations broke down Tuesday over what the Lakers deemed to be exorbitant demands from New Orleans.Late Thursday, Pelicans General Manager Dell Demps confirmed that Davis would continue playing for the team rather than be held out to guard against serious injury in advance of the trade sweepstakes that will likely emerge closer to the draft. Davis had not played since Jan. 18 because of a finger injury followed by the team not wanting to risk an injury. Demps confirmed he would be back on the court soon.“Ultimately, Anthony made it clear to us he wants to play and he gives our team the best opportunity to win games,” Demps said in a statement.The Lakers on Thursday were left trying to recover from the instability wrought by their pursuit of Davis as they seek to make the playoffs in James’s first season in Los Angeles. They entered Thursday’s play at 27-27, good for just 10th place in the West, after falling to a humiliating 42-point defeat in Indiana on Tuesday night. The one-sided loss, against the Victor Oladipo-less Pacers, left little doubt that the mounting trade speculation surrounding the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma was taking a toll on the Lakers.When the Lakers couldn’t acquire Davis on Thursday, they did trade the Croatian center Ivica Zubac — who was among the promising young players mentioned as potential parts of a trade for Davis — along with Michael Beasley to the Los Angeles Clippers in a deal for forward Mike Muscala. The move opened a roster spot for the Lakers that will allow them to seriously consider signing the former All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony, but Los Angeles will have plenty of other options on the free-agent market as various veterans become available following the deadline.As the Davis talk cooled on Thursday, much of the focus leading into the deadline centered on the Grizzlies, who wound up trading Gasol but keeping their point guard Mike Conley, who had drawn serious trade interest from the Utah Jazz and Detroit Pistons.Conley, 31, has two seasons, with a combined salary of $66 million, left on his contract after this one, which convinced the Grizzlies that trading him closer to the draft in June might yield a better offer. Gasol, though, can become a free agent at season’s end, so Memphis had to trade him now or risk losing one of the game’s best two-way players without compensation this summer.Charlotte and Memphis engaged in serious trade talks regarding Gasol earlier this week, which prompted the Spaniard, who has only played for the Grizzlies — and who played his high school ball in Memphis after the Grizzlies imported his brother Pau Gasol from Spain — to clean out his locker.But Toronto, perhaps motivated by what the Sixers did and by the Bucks’ move for Mirotic, packaged Jonas Valanciunas, Delon Wright, C.J. Miles and a second-round draft pick in 2024 to add Gasol to a team straining to convince the All-Star forward Kawhi Leonard to make a long-term commitment when he becomes a free agent July 1.The Bucks, like Toronto, managed to upgrade their roster without surrendering a first-round pick. By expanding a Thon Maker-for-Stanley Johnson trade it had hashed out earlier this week into a three-team deal, Milwaukee landed Mirotic for the primary cost of four second-round draft picks, which were sent to the Pelicans, who also came away with Johnson and the veteran Jason Smith.The Knicks did not make another deal, one week removed from the Porzingis blockbuster that got the trade madness started, but they did set two veterans free to find deals on the postseason market. The outspoken forward Enes Kanter was waived, as was the newly acquired Wes Matthews — with Matthews immediately coming to terms with Indiana to join the Pacers after he clears waivers.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCount Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James among those who were stunned by team president Magic Johnson's resignation on Tuesday night. But according to ESPN's Ramona Shelburne on Wednesday, James still stands behind the organization and Lakers owner Jeanie Buss.ESPN also reported that head coach Luke Walton participated in exit meetings with the players on Wednesday. Walton's job security is in jeopardy after the Lakers (37-45) missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season despite the offseason signing of James to a four-year, $154 million deal.James, 34, battled injuries and appeared in a career-low 55 games and averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists per game in 2018-19.--Following his meeting with Walton, James headed to New York, where he, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony watched Dwyane Wade play his final NBA game. The Miami Heat closed out the season against the Brooklyn Nets.After a pregame video tribute to Wade, the retiring superstar went over and hugged each of his three friends. The four have been friends for years, their bond immortalized by a photo of James, Wade and Paul riding a banana boat together while on vacation in 2015. Anthony was not in the picture but was also on vacation with the group.--Boston Celtics guard Marcus Smart has a torn left oblique and could miss the first two rounds of the Eastern Conference playoffs, according to a report from ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski.Smart averaged 8.9 points, 4.0 assists and 2.9 rebounds this season for the Celtics, who will be the fourth seed in the East after posting a 49-33 regular-season record. Boston will open at home this weekend against the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers. The physical guard is noted as one of the NBA's top defenders.Smart sustained the injury in a game against the Orlando Magic on Sunday, and he did not play in Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.--Anthony Davis acknowledged that despite his desire to leave New Orleans, he could begin the 2019-20 season with the Pelicans."I'm under contract still," Davis said during an informal season-ending news conference. "I have a year left. Obviously it's a possibility it could happen. I don't have ill will toward anybody. I know that it's a possibility that next year I could be here as well. So I can't be mad if I'm here next year."Davis said his next step will be to see who emerges as the general manager for the Pelicans. Dell Demps was fired in February after his handling of the Davis situation, and Danny Ferry is the interim general manager.--The Phoenix Suns have hired longtime NBA general manager Jeff Bower as their vice president of operations, Wojnarowski reported.Bower, 57, was general manager of the then-New Orleans Hornets from October 2005 to July 2010, and he also served as the team's head coach for most of the 2009-10 season after the firing of Byron Scott.The Suns have been without a general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.--The Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.Saunders, 32, is the youngest head coach in the league. He took over when Tom Thibodeau was fired in early January and has earned the endorsement of his players, most notably from All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.The Timberwolves were 36-45 entering Wednesday night's season finale at Denver, including a 17-24 mark under Saunders' leadership. Saunders reportedly will receive a three-year deal with a team option on the final season.--The Timberwolves also announced that guard Jeff Teague underwent successful debridement surgery Tuesday to clean out his left ankle. The team had no additional updates as to any recovery timetable.Teague played in 42 games for the Minnesota this season, averaging 12.1 points and a career-best 8.2 assists in 30.1 minutes. The team shut him down for the season in mid-March.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOSTON — The Celtics and Pacers aren't interested in talking about the past as they prepare to tip off their first-round playoff matchup.Indiana doesn't want to dwell on injuries, like the season-ending right knee injury Pacers guard Victor Oladipo suffered in January. Likewise, the Celtics aren't thinking about Gordon Hayward early struggles and eventual demotion from the starting lineup in his first season back from a devastating ankle injury.And neither team wants to focus on the inconsistencies that have gnawed at Celtics coach Brad Stevens and Pacers coach Nate McMillan throughout the season. Both teams began 2018-19 expecting to challenge for the Eastern Conference throne abdicated by LeBron James' departure to the Los Angeles Lakers.The only thing certain as the fifth-seeded Pacers and fourth-seeded Celtics take the TD Garden floor on Sunday is both teams still believe they can find redemption in the postseason."Everything is just about the true essence of basketball. Nothing else about the drama or extra-curricular stuff," said Celtics point guard Kyrie Irving. "I'm excited to be focused on the game and actually talk about basketball instead of sensationalism."Fair enough. But the spotlight will certainly be on Irving, who can explore free agency this summer, with at least part of the decision about whether he returns to Boston probably hinging on how the Celtics perform over the coming weeks.After reaching the Eastern Conference finals last year without both Irving and Hayward, Boston's youthful core, led by Jayson Tatum and Jaylen Brown, had trouble jelling with Irving and Hayward back in the mix. It also led to some locker room squabbling with Irving, who in a frustrated moment during a January losing streak said the younger players "don't know what it takes to be a championship-level team." He later apologized after Brown took issue with the comments.Hayward said the team is looking forward."The goal is still the same. It's a new season and what happened, happened," Hayward said. "We're trying to move on. You almost get a fresh start."For the Pacers, it's about proving that even without Oladipo they can be the same formidable team that nearly upset the Cavaliers in the first round last year.After Oladipo was sidelined Jan. 23, the Pacers allowed only 108 points per 100 possessions, placing them as one of the top 10 defensive teams in the conference. But in translated into only a 7-12 record over the final two months of the regular season."We've got to get it together," power forward Thaddeus Young said. "We have to be ready at all costs."Here are some things to watch for in the first-round series between the Pacers and Celtics:INJURY UPDATEBoston will be without Marcus Smart 4 to 6 weeks after he was diagnosed with a partial tear to his left oblique abdominal muscle. Smart was injured during the third quarter of Boston's home loss to Orlando on April 7.Tatum is also on the mend with a shin contusion but is expected to be ready in time for Sunday's opener.Stevens is mum on who will take Smart's place in the starting lineup, but it likely falls to either Tatum or Hayward.GETTING PHYSICALIndiana was often outrebounded and pushed around late in the season.The list includes Boston, which had more rebounds, blocks and steals than the Pacers in their final regular-season meeting on April 5. The Celtics' victory gave them a 2-1 season series edge and effectively wrapped up home-court advantage in this round.Making sure Indiana plays tougher will be on players such as 6-foot-11, 240-pound center Domantas Sabonis and 6-foot-8, 220-pound Thaddeus Young, two of the Pacers most physical players."We've got to get it together. We have to be ready at all costs," Young said. "Right now the biggest thing for us is locking in and doing the things we need to do defensively, physically and mentally."NO LEAD SAFETwo of the Celtics' three losses before the All-Star break also exposed their tendency to blow big leads.What might be most troubling is two of the most egregious examples were at home."We all need to consistently play better as a group," Stevens said. "We've done that at times, and we've rode Kyrie in a lot of cases, and he's carried us in a lot of games. And we need everybody at their fullest and there's no question about it."___AP Sports Writer Mike Marot in Indianapolis contributed to this report.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherWhen Derick Brassard was traded from the Florida Panthers to the Colorado Avalanche on Monday, his transportation logistics were not too tricky. He just headed over to the other team’s locker room. The Panthers and the Avalanche faced off Monday night, and Brassard duly scored a goal for his new team.In other offbeat N.H.L. trade-deadline news, Mikael Granlund was sent from the Minnesota Wild to the Nashville Predators on Monday while his partner was in labor.When you think about it, a trade is a strange thing. Imagine showing up to work tomorrow and finding yourself sent to Albuquerque along with Bob from Accounting for some young coding prospects.Given all the trades in all the sports over the years, it is not surprising that there have been some unusual ones.Guys have been traded for one, two, three, four or even five other players. Players have been traded for just about anything but a bucket of balls. Oh, wait. Scratch that. Tim Fortugno, a minor league pitcher, was sent from the Reno Silver Sox to the Stockton Brewers in 1989 for $2,500 and some baseballs. “I told them to throw in 12 dozen balls and we had a deal,” Jack Patton, the Silver Sox general manager, told The Los Angeles Times.Other legendary baseball swaps: Cy Young in 1890 for a new suit, and Ken Krahenbuhl in 1998 for catfish. Not Catfish Hunter, but 10 pounds of actual catfish.Teams have traded for coaches, including Jon Gruden, Lou Piniella, Doc Rivers and Bill Belichick. They have even traded for announcers: Ernie Harwell cost the Brooklyn Dodgers a player, Cliff Dapper, in 1948.Sometimes a player is traded for a player to be named later. In the case of Harry Chiti of the Indians in 1962, the player to be named later turned out to be Harry Chiti.In international soccer, trades are more unusual, but it’s not uncommon for smaller teams to ask bigger teams to agree to a lucrative friendly game as a part of a transfer deal.Forget three-team trades. There have been four-team trades, including the one in the N.B.A. that sent Dwight Howard to the Los Angeles Lakers in 2012. There has even been a five-team trade, a 13-player blockbuster in 2005 that sent Antoine Walker to the Miami Heat.One of the more memorable trades of recent years never actually happened. During a Mets home game in 2015, word reached the dugout and the many fans with smartphones that Wilmer Flores was being traded. Flores continued to play in the game, and the clued-in fans cheered the player in his “final” game as a Met. Flores was seen with tears in his eyes.Only the deal fell through. Flores remained a Met, and he quickly went from fan favorite to beloved Met hero for the next three years. (He was released in November.)Perhaps the strangest trade of all took place in 1979. The Philadelphia 76ers sent Harvey Catchings and Ralph Simpson to the Nets for Eric Money and Al Skinner.So what’s unusual? No, it’s not that Simpson’s daughter is the singer India Arie.The two teams had played each other in November, with the 76ers winning in double overtime. But the Nets protested the game, arguing that a number of technical fouls had been called improperly. The commissioner agreed and ordered the last part of the game to be replayed. The replay was scheduled for March.But by then the trade had taken place. Now four players were on different teams than when the game began.Sure enough, the final box score credits Money with 23 points for the Nets and 4 for the Sixers. Catchings and Simpson also played for both teams in the game.That’s a story that’s going to be hard to beat. Remember those four players who were traded in the middle of the third quarter?Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressINDEPENDENCE, Ohio — The Cavaliers aren't chasing a championship this spring. They're pursuing a coach.This time, methodically.No longer NBA title contenders, Cleveland is in the initial stages of an expansive, open-minded search general manager Koby Altman hopes will lead to finding the right coach for his young team, which is coming off a 63-loss season."We have to preach patience and we have to continue to grow this thing and we have to find a leader that's obsessed with that process of growing," Altman said Friday while outlining the type of candidates he'll interview. "We're tasked with doing that. We're excited about the next steps. We're done in April for the first time in four years, so we have a lot of time."At this time a year ago, the Cavs were preparing to make another deep playoff run. They made the Finals for the fourth straight year, but fell short in June against Golden State and then suffered a more devastating blow when LeBron James left a month later. The team endured severe growing pains this past season, which included a coaching change and countless injuries, but Altman believes better days lie ahead."The future is bright," he said.His task is finding the right coach to lead the Cavs into it.Altman plans to cast a "wide net" in his search for the fifth coach since 2013. He and his staff are paring down a list of potential candidates that will include former head coaches, current assistants — including some on playoff teams — as well as college coaches of both sexes. Head coaching experience is a plus, but not essential, and he's not limiting the search to candidates with whom he has a previous connection.Already, names are beginning to surface, including several assistants who have ties to the Cavs.Denver's Jordi Fernandez, Utah's Alex Jensen, Orlando's Steve Hetzel, Atlanta's Chris Jent, Portland's Nate Tibbetts and Dallas' Jamahl Mosley all spent time working for Cleveland. Altman intimated continuing the Cavs' rebuild with a person already familiar with the organization would be beneficial.Luke Walton could now be on Cleveland's radar after he parted ways with the Los Angeles Lakers, and Altman said he would be "open-minded" when asked about San Antonio's Becky Hammon, the league's first full-time female assistant.The timetable to find a coach? As long as it takes, Altman said."We want to make sure we get this right," he said. "We want to make sure we get to know these candidates really, really well and flush this thing out. Make sure it's the right fit for the front office, for our players, for the fan base. We want availability, grinding and all that kind of stuff. We want to make sure that's the right fit and we're the right fit for them, too."When Altman gets toward the final stages of the process, he said he may consult with Cavs players. Altman said his primary objective is landing a coach dedicated to development."It's important that we find a leader that's in it for the long haul, that really wants to be a part of Cleveland, our city and this team and help us grow every day," he said. "I think we have to be obsessed with this process of getting better and not so much results-driven — and that's the person I need to find."The Cavs finished with the league's second-worst record and are positioned to add a major piece in the draft. Obviously, winning the lottery and getting Duke's Zion Williamson would solve numerous problems. However, choosing first isn't everything, and Altman is confident the Cavs already have enough solid players to attract quality coaching candidates."We are going to draft a high-impact player, regardless of where the Ping-Pong balls land, and all those things together are a big part of us being an attractive destination," he said. "But I will say this: We're not going to sell our job. The person that is right for this job is going to really, really want to be here. That's going to be the person we hire."Altman again praised Larry Drew, who took over in October and kept the Cavs competitive until the end. Drew isn't part of the future, but Altman said he left a lasting imprint."The great thing that I can be proud of this year is our attitude," Altman said. "We had a great attitude. It wasn't heavy. It wasn't dark, even through all the losses. We had great attitude, great work ethic, and so I think we can build on that."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — About five minutes after hearing Luke Walton had been dismissed as coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, Sacramento Kings general manager Vlade Divac called Walton's agent.Finalizing the deal that brought Walton to Sacramento as the Kings new coach didn't take much longer. After getting the call Friday, Walton changed plans to take some time off and flew to Sacramento the following day instead. He agreed to a deal that afternoon and was formally introduced as coach of the Kings on Monday."I knew these types of offers don't come available very often," Walton said. "I love coaching, so having that opportunity with this type of talented team and doing it alongside somebody the way I feel about Vlade made it too good to pass up on."Divac called Walton one of his basketball "soul mates," who embraces the same philosophies in style of play and building culture on a team. The relationship between the two goes back more than a decade to when they were teammates on the Lakers in 2004-05.Divac had wanted to interview Walton for the opening three years ago before hiring Dave Joerger but never got that chance as Walton took the job with the Lakers instead. He wasn't going to miss his chance again."When I believe in something, I just do it that way," Divac said. "No need to waste time. I knew exactly what I was looking for. When he was available, I just gave him a call."Walton takes over a Kings team that's in a much better position than it was three years ago thanks to progress made under Joerger and key acquisitions made by Divac. Joerger was fired Thursday following a 39-43 campaign that was the best record for the franchise in 13 years.Divac made that move because he felt Joerger wasn't the right coach to take the Kings to the next level and the postseason and hopes that Walton can do that.He inherits an up-and-coming team in Sacramento that features several talented young players acquired by Divac: guards De'Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield, forward Marvin Bagley III and center Willie Cauley-Stein. The Kings finished nine games out of a playoff spot after being tied for the Western Conference's eighth seed heading into the final game before the All-Star break."They play fast, they have 3-point shooting, they're young, they're versatile," Walton said. "That's how I want to play. That's how I think the game should be played. All that is right there with this group. There is still room and need for improvement like with almost every team in this league. What this team could be and what I think this team will be is very exciting from a coaching standpoint."Sacramento had its most wins since going 44-38 in 2005-06 during coach Rick Adelman's final season. That ended a run of eight straight playoff berths and Sacramento hasn't been back to the postseason since for the NBA's longest active drought.Joerger was the ninth coach since Adelman was fired in 2006 and none was able to post a winning record or earn a playoff berth. In fact, since moving to Sacramento before the 1985-86 season, the only winning seasons for the Kings came in Adelman's eight years at the helm, highlighted by a trip to the Western Conference final in 2002.Divac is now counting on Walton to be the one who can get the team back to the level it reached under Adelman, when the Kings were a contender for several years and played an entertaining brand of basketball."Maybe sometimes I'm greedy," Divac said. "We had a great season, don't get me wrong. It was a successful season for us but we can do better. I'm just trying to go to the next level."The 39-year-old Walton was 98-148 in three years with Los Angeles in his first full-time head coaching job. He was 37-45 this season and was unable to make the playoffs even once.Walton also has experience as an assistant for Golden State, helping the Warriors win the 2015 title and then leading the team to a 39-4 record, including 24 straight wins to open the 2015-16 season, as interim coach while Steve Kerr was sidelined following complications from a pair of back surgeries.That performance helped him get the job with the Lakers but he was unable to duplicate that success with a roster with far less talent during his first two years and then again this year, even with LeBron James on board."I learned a lot," Walton said. "The best way to learn in my mind is experience and I had a lot of experiences these last three years. I feel much more prepared and advanced as a coach right now that I did three years ago."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressD’Angelo Russell flashed some postseason magic, playing like the All-Star leader the Nets needed with 26 points, and Caris LeVert scored 23, leading the visiting Nets to a 111-102 victory on Saturday over the Philadelphia 76ers in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.Jimmy Butler scored 36 points and saved the third-seeded Sixers, favored by many to at least reach the East semifinals, from losing by 25. Joel Embiid slogged his way through 24 minutes on a troubled left knee that cost him much of the final month of the regular season and managed 22 points and 15 rebounds. Ben Simmons came up small against Russell, his high school teammate, who scored 19 second-half points.Russell, LeVert and Spencer Dinwiddie gave the Sixers fits off the dribble and buried open looks from 3-point range, and a team that got hot late and just made the playoffs suddenly has the upper hand on the road over a 51-win team stocked with stars.“I think earlier in the season, especially when we were struggling, we’d lose games like that,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said.With Philadelphia behind by 16 late in the fourth quarter, Amir Johnson was caught by television cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone. Johnson, who was inactive for the game, showed Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid the device into a pocket of his warm-up pants.“I just looked down because he said his daughter was extremely sick and he was checking on her,” Embiid said.Johnson issued an apology after the game, and the Sixers fined him an unspecified amount. It was a fitting episode in a game that the Sixers seemed to have phoned in.Russell hit a string of jumpers in the third quarter, never letting the Sixers seriously chip away at the lead. LeVert’s third 3-pointer in the fourth made it a 16-point game, and there was no looking back for one of the biggest wins since the sixth-seeded Nets moved to Brooklyn.Dinwiddie and DeMarre Carroll made consecutive 3-pointers during a 12-0 first-half run. LeVert hit two straight 3s for a 14-point lead, and the Sixers were soundly booed off the court.“We all got to do a better job,” Embiid said. “Us. The fans. We have to bring the fun.”WARRIORS 121, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 38 points and made eight 3-pointers, reaching the highest total in postseason history, and top-seeded Golden State began its quest for a three-peat by winning at home against Los Angeles on a night when tempers flared.Kevin Durant and Patrick Beverley were ejected with 4 minutes 41 seconds to go, 19 seconds after they received double technicals when Durant stripped Beverley and the Clippers guard fell into the scorer’s table.They both became enraged again, and the official Ed Malloy immediately sent them both to the locker room. Durant high-fived fans as he left.Curry was 8 for 12 from beyond the arc, passing Ray Allen (385) for career postseason 3-pointers with 386.MAGIC 104, RAPTORS 101 D. J. Augustin scored 25 points, including the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 3.5 seconds left, and seventh-seeded Orlando won at second-seeded Toronto in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round series.Kawhi Leonard, who led the Raptors with 25 points, got a final shot but missed the rim with his 3-point attempt from the top. The Raptors are now 2-14 in playoff series openers.WALTON TO COACH KINGS One day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers, Luke Walton reached an agreement on a four-year deal to coach the Sacramento Kings, according to a person familiar with the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Lakers’ president this week in part because he did not want to go through with firing Walton, as had been expected around the N.B.A. for weeks. On Friday, Walton and the Lakers mutually agreed to part ways with two seasons left on his contract — with Walton knowing that the Kings, after firing Coach Dave Joerger on Thursday, were eager to hire him.The Lakers have the former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and the Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams at their top of their list to succeed Walton. Lue coached the Lakers’ LeBron James for two and a half seasons in Cleveland.(MARC STEIN)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byMichigan State 68, Duke 67By Marc TracyWASHINGTON — Cassius Winston held the ball and ran with it as time expired, looking more like an elusive Michigan State running back than a point guard as he evaded all last-second attempts to foul him. The top overall seed, the one with the most dominant freshman in years, was about to fall.Winston had just played every second of the game. With 20 points and 10 assists, the junior was the second-seeded Spartans’ best player against top-seeded Duke in Sunday’s regional final.But without heroics from all its players, Michigan State would have been merely forgettable roadkill on Duke’s inexorable path.There was Xavier Tillman. With just over a minute left, he scored 5 points on two shots and a free throw, cutting the deficit to 1 point.There was Kenny Goins, who swished a 3-pointer to create a 2-point lead with just 34 seconds left.Now, it’s the Spartans who seem like favorites as an unpredictable second weekend winnowed the men’s college basketball universe down to just four teams. And the Blue Devils are going home, with Zion Williamson likely heading to the N.B.A.“At the end, we made some winning plays,” Winston said afterward. “That’s what it’s all about this time of year.”Michigan State’s 68-67 victory sent the team to Coach Tom Izzo’s eighth Final Four, in search of its third national title following ones in 1979 and 2000. That latter came under Izzo, while the former was courtesy of point guard Magic Johnson, the legendary Los Angeles Lakers executive who could be seen cheering his alma mater on in the stands on Sunday.The Spartans (32-6), this year’s Big Ten champion, will face third-seeded Texas Tech (30-6), the Big 12 regular season co-champion, in a national semifinal on Saturday, April 6, in Minneapolis. The winner of that game will play the winner of the other semifinal, between No. 5-seeded Auburn (30-9) and No. 1-seeded Virginia (33-3), in the championship game on April 8.The win was just Izzo’s second against Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski in his career. He is now 2-11 versus his fellow Hall of Famer.After surviving its last two games by a combined 3 points, Duke’s road ended in Capital One Arena, a place where, given the Washington Wizards’ poor record, one of Duke’s likely freshman lottery picks could well play home games next year.Maybe it will be R.J. Barrett, who finished with 21 points, 6 assists and 6 rebounds, going 3-for-6 from deep. Or perhaps the future Washingtonian will be Cam Reddish, who missed the Virginia Tech game with knee tendinitis but looked spry while contributing 8 points and 4 rebounds in 37 minutes.Of course, should Washington end up with the top pick, then the Wizard will be Williamson, who even in defeat proved to be the best player on the court, leading all players with 24 points (on 19 shots) along with 14 rebounds, 3 blocks and 3 steals.Barrett and Williamson appeared dazed at the postgame news conference. Duke had only two losses all season aside from the six games that Williamson missed when he sprained his knee after his sneaker blew out in the opening seconds of a game versus North Carolina.“You look around the locker room, see your teammates, your brothers,” Williamson said. “You think, this group, they’ll probably never play together again.”It was a game of runs in the first half turned a nail-biter in the second. Duke started slowly, then bolted back with a vengeance, at one point going on a 21-5 run and leading by as many as nine. Michigan State closed the half with 10 unanswered points, and entered halftime up by four.Duke fought back. Williamson scored Duke’s first 10 points of the second half, and gave Duke a 4-point lead with fewer than 12 minutes left when he hit his second 3-pointer.The game slowed from there until Michigan State established that 2-point lead with 34 seconds left. Duke recovered the ball after a missed 3-pointer, and Barrett drove and was fouled with about five seconds left.Barrett missed the first free throw, but made the second — a tactical error, since Duke did not have enough fouls to put Michigan State immediately on the line. Barrett later said he had intended to miss, but it bounced off the iron and fell in.A deliberate Duke foul led to a second inbound, which Winston caught and dribbled speedily up the court and then back again, in a long arc, away from Duke’s defenders, toward his own joyous teammates, into history.An earlier version of this article misstated the game that Cam Reddish missed. It was the Virginia Tech game, not the Louisiana State game.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — To celebrate their first home win in 25 days, the Lakers on Sunday dropped streamers that had been collecting dust from the ceiling at Staples Center. The final lineup of the night included Alex Caruso, a 25-year-old guard who spent most of the season in the N.B.A.’s developmental G League.Caruso knows things were not supposed to be this way. His mere presence — in a crunchtime situation, no less — was a vivid sign that the season had gone sideways for the Lakers, who will be watching the playoffs from various vacation destinations.Caruso also knows that the Lakers are playing fairly meaningless games, including Sunday’s 111-106 victory over the Sacramento Kings. The Lakers (32-41) have nine more of these to go, starting Tuesday against the Washington Wizards. The buzz of LeBron James’s first season as a Laker is gone. The roster will be overhauled again this summer as the franchise, which has not been to the playoffs since 2013, rummages for solutions.“But for me,” Caruso said, “these games are really meaningful.”The Lakers are searching for motivation wherever they can find it, especially as they head toward an off-season of uncertainty. Coach Luke Walton’s job status is tenuous at best, and 10 players on the current roster do not have guaranteed deals for next season. Some of them, like Caruso, are trying to showcase their skills in hopes of acquiring N.B.A. work next season.“I think this little stretch has been really good,” Caruso said, “because it’s finally allowed me to put all that work I’ve put in over the last two years and show how much I’ve evolved as a player. That I’m gaining confidence and making strides to get better and better.” In 16 appearances for the Lakers this season, Caruso has shot 44.6 percent from the field, averaging 6 points and 2.2 rebounds.Even players who figure to be a part of the franchise’s future are focusing on personal growth. A team is always a collection of individuals, but the Lakers’ late-season emphasis on “me” is particularly understandable.“I need to use these games to develop myself and play with the ball more,” the second-year forward Kyle Kuzma said recently.The Lakers were not yet mathematically eliminated from playoff contention when they lost to the Knicks at Madison Square Garden on March 17 — that would happen five days later — but Kuzma stood by his locker in a red leather jumpsuit after the game and spoke about the immediate future.“I’m just trying to use these last 13, 14 games — whatever we have — to just try to develop good habits,” he said. “Season’s pretty much over, so that’s the only thing I can really do. Everyone knows I’m a good scorer and I can do that. I’m just trying to complete my game.”Then there are the injured players who have largely disappeared from view: Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram, Josh Hart. For them, the end of this season is about rehabbing for the next one.After all the losses, injuries and general dysfunction, Walton continues to preach the importance of team play. Same as ever.“It starts with our effort and how we play and how we compete,” he said. “And our guys have been doing a nice job of that, even though we haven’t been winning games. Whatever lineups we’ve been putting out there, they’re giving what they have. So that’s the No. 1 thing.”As for James, these are his first truly inconsequential games since his rookie season with the Cleveland Cavaliers, who finished well out of playoff contention. But even then, he could use the end of the season as an opportunity to hone his abilities and gain experience for future endeavors — such as eight consecutive trips to the N.B.A. Finals.So it is a credit to James, even as the grease fire of his first season with the Lakers smolders, that he is out there — trying. Against the Kings, he finished with his 81st career triple-double: 29 points, 11 assists, 11 rebounds. How does he sustain the motivation?“If he’s out there on the court, he’s going to give what he has,” Walton said. “That’s probably a better question for him, but I’m getting to know him, and that’s the type of person he is: He respects and loves the game. So if he’s going to play, he’s going to give what he has.”James said he appreciated the fans who continued to show up. He also said he owed it to himself to play with genuine effort.“I’ve always respected the basketball gods,” James said, “and if I’m on the floor, I got to try to play as hard as I can or do something to affect the game and not cheat the game.”Still, times have changed for the Lakers, who have not been to the playoffs since 2013. Before that, they routinely fixated on the Western Conference standings and the number of wins they would need to make the playoffs. Now, the most important number in their universe is 3 percent — as in, their odds of winning the N.B.A. draft lottery.Then again, the Lakers are not the only team that has so little at stake at this stage of the season. Look no further than the Kings, whose push for a playoff berth has deteriorated in recent weeks. Before Sunday’s game, Coach Dave Joerger held a brief news conference. No one had much to ask.“I can give you some more stuff,” he said. “I mean, it’s sunny out. It’s spring. It smells like March Madness, Lent and the N.B.A. playoffs. Get the seedings, get it done. Exciting times.”He paused again.“Nothing else?” he asked.Nothing else.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — Luke Walton is out as coach of the Los Angeles Lakers after three losing seasons.Lakers general manager Rob Pelinka announced Walton's departure Friday, three days after the abrupt resignation of president of basketball operations Magic Johnson. Pelinka called Walton leaving a mutual decision.The former Lakers forward went 98-148 after getting his first permanent head coaching job with the 16-time NBA champions. The former Golden State assistant never led the Lakers to the playoffs, not even after the arrival of LeBron James last summer.Walton leaves three days after the Lakers' final game of their 37-45 season was upstaged by the shocking pregame resignation of Johnson, who inherited Walton when he took over the Lakers' front office in February 2017. Johnson attributed his decision in part to his desire and reluctance to fire Walton, who is close to Lakers owner Jeanie Buss.A potential power struggle instead ended with both men out of their jobs after this wild week. Pelinka, who was hired along with Johnson, announced the move in a possible sign of the increased organizational power of Kobe Bryant's former agent."I want to thank Jeanie Buss and the Buss family for giving me the opportunity to coach the Lakers," Walton said in a statement issued by the Lakers. "This franchise and the city will always be special to me and my family."Walton joined the Lakers with fanfare in 2016 after his successful tenure alongside coach Steve Kerr with the powerhouse Warriors. Walton stepped in as Golden State's interim coach when Kerr was sidelined by health issues to start the 2015-16 season, and he led the Warriors to a 24-0 start and a 39-4 record before Kerr returned to the bench."They're losing one of the best human beings in the NBA. They're losing a guy who knows the game as well as anybody I've ever met," Kerr said Friday in Oakland. "They're losing somebody who players believe in, players want to play for. But again, he was dependent on circumstances, just like all of us are. I feel for Luke."The Lakers improved their record in each of Walton's three seasons, but never finished higher than third place in the Pacific Division. The current Lakers were the franchise's most successful team since their playoff drought began in 2013, but it wasn't enough to save Walton's job."I think Luke did a hell of a job with what he had, the cards he was dealt," point guard Rajon Rondo said. "The guys fought every night."Los Angeles was in fourth place in the Western Conference at 20-14 after beating Golden State last Christmas, but James and Rondo were injured during the game. The Lakers' season fell apart during the longest injury absence of James' career, and they ended the season with nearly every important player in their young core sidelined by injuries.Walton was tasked with one of the most difficult jobs in the NBA this season. Johnson and Pelinka gave him an oddly constructed roster of idiosyncratic NBA veterans on one-year deals playing alongside James and several talented youngsters including Brandon Ingram, Lonzo Ball, Kyle Kuzma and Josh Hart.Walton's Lakers also were rattled by Johnson's midseason pursuit of disgruntled New Orleans forward Anthony Davis in a trade that would have resulted in a complete roster upheaval. Several Lakers acknowledged the shadowy pursuit's impact on their play."It affected us a lot," guard Kentavious Caldwell-Pope said. "Once the trade talk was there, the locker room changed. Everybody was pretty much worried about that, especially guys that haven't been through it. They were worried where they were going to end up."James and the Lakers' players have been uniformly supportive of Walton, who managed to keep his team playing hard and harmoniously under the Los Angeles microscope despite multiple major injuries and distractions. Walton just couldn't coax enough wins out of the Lakers, who ruined their second-half playoff hopes with confounding losses to bottom-dwellers New York and Phoenix."Want to thank Luke and the rest of the coaching staff for allowing me to be me from day 1," Kuzma tweeted. "They say opportunity is everything in the league and they gave me that right from the jump."Not many Lakers observers questioned Walton's man-management abilities, but his tactical acumen was widely criticized. Johnson and many fans had problems with everything from Walton's playing time decisions and curious rotations to his reported reluctance to add new assistants with fresh perspectives to his bench.Despite everything, the Lakers went 15-8 in their 23 games with James, Ingram and Ball all healthy. Buss decided not to find out whether Walton could continue that progress in the fall with renewed health and a high draft pick this summer.The Lakers' next coach will be their sixth since the retirement of Phil Jackson in 2011. Walton's 246 games in charge were the most by any coach in the tumultuous near-decade since the franchise's last championship in 2010.Ex-Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue, the former Lakers guard, already has been frequently mentioned as a potential replacement for Walton due to his obvious ties to James. Philadelphia assistant Monty Williams, the well-regarded former New Orleans head coach, also is expected to be a candidate.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — The longest active streak of missing the NBA playoffs belongs to Sacramento, where general manager Vlade Divac has been trying to return the Kings to the league's elite over the last four seasons.Back when the slick-passing Serbian big man was in the paint, the Kings had quite the run. For his impact on the NBA as one of the pioneering Eastern Europeans, Divac was announced Saturday as one of the 12 honorees in the 2019 class of the Basketball Hall of Fame."We created something special there, the first day of training camp that led us," said Divac, who played for Sacramento from 1998-2004, with a peak in 2002 when the Kings lost to the Los Angeles Lakers in overtime of Game 7 of the Western Conference finals. "For six years, we were the most exciting team in the league and really played basketball the right way."The class will be enshrined at the Hall of Fame in Springfield, Massachusetts, on Sept. 6. Selected this year with Divac were NBA players Carl Braun, Chuck Cooper, Bobby Jones, Sidney Moncrief, Jack Sikma and Paul Westphal, NBA coach Bill Fitch, NBA contributor Al Attles, WNBA player Teresa Weatherspoon, the 1957-59 teams from Tennessee A&I and the Wayland Baptist University program.Divac, who was elected directly by the international committee, played 16 years in the NBA, including eight with the Lakers. The 7-foot-1 Divac had his jersey retired by the Kings after helping them start a streak of eight straight postseason appearances upon his arrival. They never advanced past the conference finals, a surge that coincided with the Lakers dynasty of Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal.One of Divac's fellow starters on those Kings teams was Chris Webber, who wasn't included in the class. Now an analyst for CBS Sports, Webber quickly sent Divac a congratulatory message after the announcement in Minneapolis at the Final Four."For the last five or six days when I found out I was going to be there, I was only hoping that he was going to be next me," Divac said. "I'm sure it's going to happen down the road, but it would be awesome if he was right next to me."Moncrief and Sikma, who were elected by the North American committee, were teammates with the Milwaukee Bucks from 1986-89. The seven-time All-Star Sikma, who won an NBA title in his second season with the Seattle SuperSonics, set a record with the Bucks in 1988 as the only center in history to lead the league in free-throw percentage at 92.2. Sikma is now a consultant with the Toronto Raptors, who are in second place in the Eastern Conference behind the resurgent Bucks."My hope is we get in the conference finals and we're facing the Bucks, and then I'll kind of keep my thoughts to myself a little bit," Sikma said, smiling.Moncrief was a five-time All-Star and two-time NBA Defensive Player of the Year in the mid-1980s for the Bucks, who lost in the Eastern Conference finals three times during his career. Moncrief also reached the Final Four in his final season at Arkansas, 1978-79, under coach Eddie Sutton, for whom he gave credit for instilling in him the fundamentals that carried him to professional success."You'd take a four-hour practice: three hours on defense. Seriously," Moncrief said. "And they wonder why I couldn't shoot when I got to the NBA! I didn't shoot. I just played defense."Weatherspoon, who was elected by the women's committee, was a five-time WNBA All-Star for the New York Liberty who was the first in the league to reach 1,000 points and 1,000 assists. She led Louisiana Tech to an NCAA championship in 1988.Jones and Westphal were the other players elected by the North American committee. Jones was an eight-time NBA All-Defensive first team pick and four-time All-Star with the Philadelphia 76ers, winning a title with them in 1983. Westphal was a five-time All-Star who won a championship with the Boston Celtics in 1974.Fitch coached in the NBA for 255 seasons, leading the Celtics to a title in 1981 and still holding the franchise's best winning percentage at .738. The other election by the North American committee was the Tennessee A&I teams that won NAIA championships in 1957, 1958 and 1959. The program now known as Tennessee State was the first to win three straight titles in any college division.Attles was a direct election by the contributor committee. He played for the Philadelphia Warriors from 1960-71 and later was a coach, executive and ambassador for the organization. Cooper, who died in 1984, was directly elected by the early African American pioneers committee. He was an All-American at Duquesne in 1950 and the first African American player drafted by an NBA team. Braun, directly elected by the veterans committee, died in 2010. He was a five-time NBA All-Star who won a title with the Boston Celtics in 1962.Wayland Baptist, elected directly by the women's veterans committee, was among the first women's programs to award scholarships. Under the guidance of coach Harley Redin, the small school in West Texas won 131 straight games from 1953-58 and 10 national championships overall.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperCHARLOTTE, N.C. — After two weeks of Anthony Davis’s trade request dominating conversation around the N.B.A., Commissioner Adam Silver on Saturday sounded sanguine about any possible negative effects it was having on the league.“Some of the greatest players in the history of this league have demanded trades at various points of their contracts,” he said at his annual All-Star weekend address. He went on to say that there was “very little” he could do to completely stop players from trying to force trades.Davis was fined $50,000 for the public trade request made by his agent, Rich Paul. Silver said it was healthy for players and their agents to have ongoing conversations with their teams about future intentions, but that he preferred that such conversations happen behind closed doors. As for the frenzy of news media attention surrounding Davis and his possible destination this summer, Silver said the “public spectacle” wasn’t the type of media interest the league wanted.“We certainly are becoming a 52-week-a-year sport, and it’s largely the result of tremendous interest in these players,” he said. “I think we could do a better job as a league in avoiding those situations where they get to the point where players are maybe demanding they be traded or, worst-case scenario, saying, ‘I’m not going to honor my contract.’”[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]Silver has frequently stated a desire to improve the N.B.A.’s competitive balance. Asked whether small-market teams could compete with large-market franchises, Silver largely disputed the premise without even citing the fact that the Milwaukee Bucks, a small-market club, currently have the best winning percentage in the league.He took the opposite approach.“I’m not even sure where the line is anymore on big markets,” he said, pointing out that the Los Angeles Lakers, New York Knicks and Chicago Bulls — teams that play in major cities — have struggled on the court in recent years.Silver also said it was too early to judge whether reforms to the draft lottery, intended to reduce the incentive to tank in pursuit of a high draft pick, were having the intended effect. Four teams this year are on pace to win fewer than 20 games, but Silver said there is also an unusually large number still in contention for a playoff berth.“I personally don’t think it is a winning strategy over the long term, losing for multiple years,” said Silver. He also said that choosing to be uncompetitive for an extended period of time would most likely have a “corrosive’’ effect on any team that took that approach.Taken together, Silver’s responses to questions suggested that he was relatively happy with the state of the N.B.A. and believed that the league’s problems could be solved through tweaks to the system, not wholesale changes.Silver opened the news conference by addressing House Bill 2, the law passed in North Carolina in 2016 that invalidated local government ordinances establishing anti-discrimination protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people and required people in publicly owned buildings to use restrooms that corresponded with the genders listed on their birth certificates. In response to the law, the N.B.A. took the All-Star Game, originally scheduled to be played in Charlotte in 2017, away from the city.He said it was the view of the league office that the law discriminated against the LGBTQ community, and subsequently the N.B.A. made the decision that it was “inconsistent with the values of this league to play the All-Star Game here under those circumstances.” The N.B.A. decided to return after the law was partially repealed.Asked about efforts to improve the culture of the Dallas Mavericks, where a league investigation found numerous instances of sexual harassment and improper conduct among employees, Silver offered few specifics but said there was a “complete sea change in culture on the business side” of the organization.Earlier Saturday, the N.B.A., in partnership with the International Basketball Federation, announced the formation of the Basketball Africa League, a 12-team professional league made up of clubs from across Africa. The league will begin play in 2020, the first time that the N.B.A. will be involved in the operation of a league outside of North America.Many details, including which clubs from which countries will be part of the league, have yet to be finalized, but Silver did say that former President Barack Obama would be involved in the league in an unspecified capacity.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. said Monday that it required the New Orleans Pelicans to play Anthony Davis, their disgruntled All-Star, after he was not traded before last week’s trade deadline because of “league rules governing competitive integrity.”The Pelicans initially planned to sit Davis for the rest of the season once they responded to his request to be traded by deciding to keep him beyond Thursday’s deadline, according to two people familiar with New Orleans’ stance who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.But the league office said it intervened because of its rules about resting healthy players, which are in place largely to prevent teams from weakening their rosters intentionally to incur losses that could improve their draft position in June. The practice is known as “tanking.”The Pelicans maintain that they were trying to protect Davis from a serious injury during the final 28 regular-season games before the off-season, when they do intend to trade him after they field offers from a wider base of teams than those who made competitive offers last week, according to the people.Mike Bass, an N.B.A. spokesman, said Monday that “the Pelicans were advised that the team had not identified a proper basis” to hold Davis out of games.“League rules governing competitive integrity therefore require that he be permitted to play,” Bass said.Bass also denied an ESPN report from last week that said the Pelicans were threatened by the league with per-game fines of $100,000 if they sat Davis when he wanted to play.[With Anthony Davis on His Way Out, New Orleans Tries to Plot Its Path]Davis, who can become a free agent in July 2020, requested a trade from the Pelicans on Jan. 28 but did not insist that he be traded before the deadline, The Times reported last week. As part of the trade request, Davis also told the Pelicans that he intended to decline their offer of a $240 million contract extension in July and that the Los Angeles Lakers and the Knicks were the two teams he was most open to signing a long-term deal with.Upon learning of New Orleans’ plans to sit Davis after the Pelicans and Lakers broke off days of contentious trade talks, Davis’s agent, Rich Paul, lobbied league officials on Davis’s behalf to clear him to play, according to the people.Both Paul and Michele Roberts, head of the N.B.A. Players Association, declined to comment Monday.“Anthony Davis will play the remainder of the 2018-19 season for the New Orleans Pelicans,” New Orleans General Manager Dell Demps said in a statement last week. “A number of factors contributed to this decision. Ultimately Anthony made it clear to us that he wants to play and gives our team the best opportunity to win games. Moreover the Pelicans want to preserve the integrity of the game and align our organization with N.B.A. policies. We believe Anthony playing upholds the values that are in the best interest of the N.B.A. and its fans. We look forward to seeing Anthony in a Pelicans uniform soon.”Davis has since appeared in two games with New Orleans, averaging 28.5 points and 12.5 rebounds in 29.5 minutes per game in a win (over Minnesota) and a defeat (in Memphis).The N.B.A. has been increasingly vigilant in sanctioning teams for resting healthy players since an incident in November 2012, when the San Antonio Spurs were fined $250,000 for sending Tim Duncan, Tony Parker, Manu Ginobili and Danny Green home with virtually no notice before a nationally televised game in Miami.This season, though, several players with smaller profiles than Davis have been shelved by their teams in anticipation of a trade without any public pushback from the N.B.A.Like Davis, Chandler Parsons of Memphis and Carmelo Anthony, the former Houston Rocket, wanted to play but were benched for months. Parsons has since rejoined the Grizzlies after they were unable to find a new home for him via trade before the deadline; Anthony spent more than two months in exile before the Rockets traded him to the Chicago Bulls on Jan. 21. Anthony became a free agent on Feb. 3 after the Bulls released him and he cleared waivers.Cleveland’s J.R. Smith and Zach Randolph, the former Sacramento King who was traded to Dallas last week, have also been inactive for long spells this season — but both by mutual agreement with their teams.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Rajon Rondo has had a difficult time for the Lakers. He was suspended after brawling with the Houston Rockets in the second game of the season. He proceeded to mangle his right hand not just once, but twice, requiring surgery both times while missing a total of 31 games. And in recent weeks, he has been coming off the bench for Coach Luke Walton, even as Lonzo Ball, who had been starting at point guard, continues to recover from an ankle injury.Rondo, a 13-year pro, was supposed to be an invaluable presence for the Lakers, who had otherwise surrounded LeBron James in Year 1 of the West Coast LeBron era with a cast of unproven (if promising) players and a hodgepodge of reclamation projects. Nobody thought this team would vie for a championship, but the road has been rougher than expected.In the wake of a recent two-game road trip to New Orleans and Memphis that resulted in two deflating losses and the very real sense that the Lakers could miss the playoffs, Walton approached Rondo for a quiet conversation. Walton wanted to put him back in the starting lineup for Wednesday’s game against the Pelicans, and Rondo was on board with the plan.After all, what did the Lakers have to lose? Aside from losing another game that they desperately needed to win.“We sat there and talked,” Walton said. “He’s been fine with his role. He wants to play more — everyone wants to play more. But he hasn’t been complaining or anything like that. But our conversation was one of: ‘Let’s talk about what we need to do. How do we get back on track?’ It was an honest conversation. It was healthy and positive.”As far as confidence-building exercises go, the Lakers’ subsequent 125-119 victory over the Pelicans was not necessarily Grade A material. The Pelicans have their own issues, and their star center Anthony Davis, who had hoped to be playing for the Lakers after this month’s trade deadline, was on a strict minutes limit as the Pelicans eye a summer sweepstakes for his services. (They would like to keep his limbs intact in the meantime.)But Walton’s favorite verb after the game was “need,” as in the Lakers needed the win and needed some positive vibes.Sure enough, Rondo helped a great deal, finishing with 16 assists, 11 points and 7 rebounds in 37 minutes.“I’m very confident in what Rondo has done in this league,” Walton said. “He’s struggled a little bit, but some of that’s on me. His minutes have been down. We’ve been trying to find different groups to work. But he’s proven over his career that when he gets an opportunity, he shows up to play.”Rondo was not particularly adept from the perimeter, shooting 5 of 15 from the field, and Davis feasted on the Lakers’ smaller lineup when he was on the court. Walton knows those could be more pressing issues against better teams. But for one night, the Lakers (30-31) allowed themselves to savor some hard-earned momentum — because it might not last.The Lakers, who have been hindered this season by injuries and trade-deadline intrigue, are not a great basketball team. The question is whether they are merely mediocre, with a chance of still making the playoffs, or not very good at all, in which case they will have wasted their first year with James on the roster.It hardly helps that the Lakers have one of the league’s most difficult schedules the rest of the way, starting Friday when they host the Milwaukee Bucks, who improved to 47-14 on Wednesday with a win against the Sacramento Kings. The Lakers’ coming schedule also includes meetings with playoff-bound teams like the Denver Nuggets and the Toronto Raptors.“Every day is going to be its own challenge,” James said, adding: “Just try to stay positive throughout whatever’s going on.”Rondo had experienced his own set of challenges ahead of Wednesday’s game. He was coming off a pair of dreadful performances during the team’s recent two-game trip, averaging 4.5 points and 2 assists off the bench while shooting 36.4 percent from the field. He was a nonfactor, or perhaps even a net negative.“I didn’t have the rhythm on both ends of the floor,” Rondo said. “That’s why we have 82 games. You have the opportunity to play again and redeem yourself.”At Wednesday’s shootaround, center Tyson Chandler kept yelling, “energy, energy, energy,” Rondo said. And during the game itself, the players focused on their body language — lots of hugs and high-fives — in addition to actually playing some defense for a change. Walton was also pleased that the Lakers had 37 assists to go with just eight turnovers.“It’s a lot of fun when your guys are playing like that,” he said.Forget that the Pelicans are struggling. Forget that James needed to sink a fadeaway 3-pointer from the corner with 31.3 seconds left to seal the win and sidestep disaster. Forget that Julius Randle, a center the Lakers let walk in free agency last summer, torched his old team for 35 points in the loss.Forget all this until Friday, when Rondo and the rest of the Lakers are sure to face an even stiffer challenge.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Sopan DebBOSTON — Jayson Tatum boomed on LeBron James in last year’s N.B.A. playoffs. You may remember it. Tatum, the 21-year-old swingman for the Boston Celtics, certainly does.The dunk drew a “wow” from the play-by-play broadcaster Mike Breen. A reporter wrote on Twitter that in the locker room afterward, he overheard James saying that Tatum had “boomed” him, before James repeated four times, “He’s so good.”“I’ve got a big-ass picture of it in my house,” Tatum said in a post-practice interview on Tuesday.The dunk came in the fourth quarter of Game 7 of last year’s Eastern Conference finals. Starting from outside the 3-point line, Tatum took two dribbles with his left hand to get to the rim before hammering a right-handed dunk past James, who attempted a block as a helpless defender. Tatum followed the booming with a chest bump of James, one of his boyhood idols, as if to say, “I’m here.”The Celtics lost that game, but the dunk solidified Tatum, who played one season at Duke, as an emerging N.B.A. star.After the Celtics’ disappointing regular-season run this season, Tatum’s star hasn’t been as bright so far in these playoffs as Boston faces the Indiana Pacers in the first round. He did not make the leap many had thought he would: While he improved as a rebounder and passer, his shot selection led to more long 2-pointers, causing his true shooting percentage to dip from .586 in his rookie campaign to .547 this year, placing him below .560, the league average.He increased his frequency of midrange jumpers but decreased his accuracy in making them: 37 percent, down from 44 percent. Many of his advanced metric statistics, including win shares per 48 minutes, value over replacement player and box plus/minus, were worse this year.Tatum finds himself in an unusual spot, compared with fellow N.B.A. sophomores like Utah’s Donovan Mitchell and Philadelphia’s Ben Simmons. The better Tatum plays, especially in this postseason, the more likely he is to be linked to trade rumors, particularly those involving Anthony Davis, the New Orleans Pelicans star who has requested a trade that could shift the competitive balance in the N.B.A.Several college starters in this year’s Final Four were older than Tatum. But if he cannot live up to the hype he created in last year’s playoffs — that is, if he becomes just another guard — the Pelicans may be more likely to accept a package from the Los Angeles Lakers or another team besides Boston. At the same time, if Celtics point guard Kyrie Irving opts for free agency this summer, the future of the franchise may rest on Tatum’s shoulders. At barely 21, he’d be the alpha.Tatum’s future is more uncertain than many other players who have received significant early acclaim. But one way or another, the Celtics need Tatum to be great. Not just for this year’s playoffs, but for the future.In short, they need him to boom.In a conversation at the Celtics’ practice facility about his future and the atypical stakes, Tatum had talking points at the ready, ones that he had delivered multiple times before. He stared straight ahead, not making eye contact, as if he were running through the script in his head.“Trade rumors don’t bother me,” he said in his deep monotone. “They’re talking about trading me for guys like Anthony Davis. So, I mean, I must be doing something pretty well.” When pressed on whether this bothered him, he didn’t budge: “I love the game of basketball. Being traded is part of the game. I’ll play for whomever. It’s something I can’t control.”He didn’t have much more to say than that. But that is Tatum’s personality, Brad Stevens, the Celtics’ head coach, said. No distractions. That, Stevens said, is his best quality.“Circumstances don’t affect him,” Stevens said. “First game of the season, he’s unaffected by the jitters that everybody has. Seventh game of a playoff series? Unaffected. At least, he shows himself to be unaffected, and he can thrive in that environment.”Stevens said Tatum’s quality of play had improved as he got deeper into the season. He became a better passer, averaging 2.8 assists after the All-Star break, compared with 1.9 before. But his shooting dipped, from 38 percent from deep before the break to 35 percent afterward.Last season, Tatum benefited from the low expectations for the Celtics after injuries to Irving, forward Gordon Hayward and the reserve center Daniel Theis. But he also helped carry Boston to within one win of an unlikely N.B.A. finals appearance. This year, “unlikely” is not in the playoff vocabulary. The Celtics are supposed to get there. And Boston’s fans, never the most positive bunch, can turn on a player in a second. If the Celtics do not advance, after many analysts predicted they would, fans may view Tatum’s season in a harsh light, given how much of the franchise’s fortunes are tied up with him.Tatum said he was not as nervous about the playoffs this time around. Taking a daily pregame nap with his 16-month-old son has helped. The early returns have been positive: In the first game of the series against the Pacers, Tatum scored 15 points on 11 shots. He was plus-11 in 34 minutes as the Celtics ran away with a win. In Game 2, Tatum was even better. He scored 26 points on 20 shots, including multiple thunderous dunks in the fourth quarter, helping Boston take a 2-0 lead in the series.But there hasn’t been a highlight that has matched the dunk on James. Tatum shook his head no when asked if he had ever talked to James about that play. A hint of a grin betrayed his practiced demeanor.“They won, so they got the last laugh,” Tatum said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — Giannis Antetokounmpo ran and dunked all over the Pistons until they just shoved him to the ground.The team with the NBA's best record wanted to show it can make a long playoff run, and the Detroit Pistons were helpless to slow them down."I don't know if they were ready for us," Antetokounmpo said. "But we just try to focus on ourselves. We just try to play with pace, run to our spots and try to make plays."Antetokounmpo had 24 points and 17 rebounds in just 24 minutes, and the Milwaukee Bucks rolled to a 121-86 victory on Sunday night in the opener of their first-round playoff series.Seven players scored in double figures for the Bucks, who led by as many as 43 points. Their 35-point margin was the third-largest in the franchise's playoff history.The Pistons only really caught up to Antetokounmpo when center Andre Drummond shoved him to the ground with both hands late in the third quarter, after the MVP candidate grabbed an offensive rebound with Detroit trailing by 41 points.Drummond was given a flagrant 2 foul and ejected. He blew a kiss to the Fiserv Forum crowd as he was escorted off the court."As a team we talked about it, to try to keep our composure whenever the opposing team tries to foul us hard or tries to hit us or play dirty," Antetokounmpo said. "Obviously, I'm not going to look to the referees for protection. I've just got to play smart and try to avoid the situations."Antetokounmpo was only 5 of 12 on free throws and 1 of 5 from 3-point range, but was 9 for 17 from the field.Eric Bledsoe had 15 points, and Brook Lopez and Khris Middleton each added 14 for the Bucks. George Hill scored 16 points off the bench."We were all over the map defensively and didn't get anything done," coach Dwane Casey said of the Pistons, who allowed 70 first-half points and trailed by 27 at intermission. "We have another level we have to get to with our intensity and physicality, because they're coming through there with balance, Euro-stepping, throwing elbows and stuff like this."We have to get our level of competitiveness up to start the game, because you can't spot a great team like this that many points and expect to get back into it."Luke Kennard paced the Pistons with 21 points off the bench and Drummond had 12 points and 12 rebounds. Reggie Jackson also had 12 points. Detroit played without forward Blake Griffin, who sat out with a left knee injury.Detroit shot 38% from the field and went 8 of 27 from 3-point distance (29.6."I think it was top-notch today," Bledsoe said of the Bucks' defensive performance. "Brook was protecting the paint all night. We were getting steals, playing our game and getting out in transition. We started early so that helped us out."The Bucks sank 15 3-pointers, just one shy of tying a playoff high, and compiled 31 assists on 44 made field goals.Drummond got the defensive assignment on Antetokounmpo after Thon Maker got in early foul trouble trying to stop him."I have watched that kid since he got drafted so I know his game like the back of my hand," Drummond said. "He is just going to put his head down and keep driving in there. (The plan) is to make him take tough shots, take charges when he does try to bulldog his way in, force him to take 3-point shots, and if we do foul him, foul him as hard as possible."GRIFFIN GETS A TECHGriffin was issued a technical foul for protesting Drummond's ejection. Casey said he understood what the referees were doing to keep control of the game but thought a flagrant 1 foul would have been more appropriate."I think it was a flagrant but I don't think Andre deserved to be out the rest of the game," Griffin said. "At least that is my opinion in real time."Casey said he thought Griffin did not deserve a technical."What I didn't understand was an official coming over and having a conversation with a player that's not even playing and giving him a technical," Casey said. "It's a hot situation. Walk to the other side of the floor instead of having a conversation."Griffin said it was frustrating having to watch Game 1 from the sideline."I never like to feel like I'm leaving my guys out there," Griffin said. "But I have to do what our organization, our training staff, our doctors think is best, and that is the bottom line."TIP-INSDetroit: Maker faced his former team and started in Griffin's place. He avoided a flagrant foul when he brought Antetokounmpo to the floor in the second quarter. The referees reviewed the play but stayed with their original call of a common foul. Maker had four points and four rebounds in 22 minutes and was booed heavily by the home crowd. "Thon is my little brother," Antetokounmpo said. "I've known him since he came to the league. We've been friends. But I know he's a competitor. I know he's going to come out here and do whatever he can to help his team win. . Detroit entered with a 14-3 playoff record against Milwaukee, winning all four series.Milwaukee: F Nikola Mirotic played 15 minutes while scoring four points on 2-of-8 shooting. "He's just getting back in conditioning and health and everything like that," Bucks coach Mike Budenholzer said. Mirotic had missed the last 11 regular-season games after fracturing his left thumb on March 19 against the Los Angeles Lakers. ... The Bucks' 70 points were the second-most in a first half in franchise playoff history. They scored 77 against Philadelphia in the Eastern Division semifinals in March 1970.UP NEXTGame 2 is Wednesday night in Milwaukee.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOAKLAND, Calif. — Lou Williams led the Los Angeles Clippers to the largest postseason comeback in NBA history.Landry Shamet hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 16.5 seconds left, Stephen Curry couldn't answer on the other end, and the Clippers somehow rallied from 31 points down on the road to stun the Golden State Warriors 135-131 on Monday night and even their first-round playoff series at one game apiece.The comeback topped a 29-point rally by the Los Angeles Lakers in the 1989 Western Conference semifinals over Seattle. The Clippers confirmed it's the best comeback ever."That's a record we didn't necessarily want to have. We'll take it," Williams said. "You're competitive and you get lost in the game. Once you cut the lead to 12, you cut the lead to 10, then you realize you've got a game going. I'm one of those guys who can get hot."Curry scored 29 points and put the Warriors up 131-128 with 58 seconds left before Shamet's dagger on a night the two-time defending NBA champions lost DeMarcus Cousins to a leg injury in the first quarter."We changed a couple things offensively and defensively in the third on the fly. It worked out for us. But I thought it was our spirit more than anything," Clippers coach Doc Rivers said. "Just every single guy. I loved the end of the game."Williams tied the game on a jumper with 1:10 to play then Curry immediately answered. Williams scored again at 46 seconds and finished with 36 points and made 8 of 10 free throws in as the teams combined for 64 fouls and 76 free throws attempted."When I say we stopped playing, we stopped playing, like defense, offense, execution-wise we were not as engaged as we needed to be," Warriors coach Steve Kerr said. "We got exactly what we deserved. The Clippers were great. They executed, they were hungry, they stayed connected. They were together."Cousins injured his left quadriceps muscle in the first quarter and was done for the game, but Golden State's depth shined and the Warriors built a 23-point halftime lead they pushed to a 31-point advantage before failing to hold off Los Angeles late.Williams' jumper and three-point play with 5:34 left pulled the Clippers within 120-117 then he rebounded his own miss and scored the putback at the 5:05 mark and cut it to 121-119."The wheels fell off," Curry said.Cousins was scheduled to undergo an MRI exam after the injury in just his second career playoff game following a nine-year wait. The big man returned in January from a nearly year-long absence following surgery for a torn left Achilles tendon.He won't play in Game 3 on Thursday at Staples Center and Cousins' entire postseason is in serious doubt.Kerr said Cousins will be out "a while.""There's a pretty significant quad injury," Kerr said.Cousins hobbled to the locker room at the 8:09 mark of the first quarter. At the 8 1/2-minute mark Cousins stole the ball from Patrick Beverley in the back court and tried to retrieve the loose ball when went down in front of the Golden State bench and grabbed at his left quad.LeBron James tweeted prayers for Cousins, who fouled out of Saturday's 121-104 Game 1 win with nine points, nine rebounds and four assists in 21 minutes.Kevon Looney picked up the bulk of the extra minutes in Cousins' absence and scored a career-high 19 points making all six of his shots but the Warriors had their seven-game postseason winning streak snapped that dated to last year's run to a repeat championship. Durant had 21 points, five rebounds and five assists, Klay Thompson scored 17 points and Draymond Green 14 with nine assists.Curry followed up a 38-point performance in Game 1 that gave him the most 3s in postseason history with another nice showing but Golden State hurt itself with too many miscues.The Warriors committed 21 turnovers in Game 1, then 22 more Monday — nine by Durant."We let our guard down. We weren't the aggressors anymore. We didn't deserve to win that game," Thompson said.Los Angeles wanted to do a better job stopping the late bursts each quarter the Warriors had in Game 1, and the Clippers were somehow able to claw their way back.Both coaches challenged their teams to be more poised in Game 2 following the ejections of Beverley and Durant in the opener. Beverley again pushed the limits but the sides avoided a testy encore, and he fouled out with 4:33 to go to roaring cheers from the sellout crowd. Kevin Durant fouled out at 1:21 with a third straight offensive foul.DURANT'S APOLOGYAt morning shootaround, Durant apologized for being tossed from Game 1.The two-time reigning finals MVP has two technicals, and if he reaches seven during the postseason it brings an automatic one-game suspension."I don't want to disappoint my coaches and my fan base and owners who expect me to be out on the floor, so I apologize for being thrown out the game," Durant said. "Just keep my mouth shut, just play the game. Simple."DOC APPRECIATES GOOD DEEDDoc Rivers dropped $2,000 cash on the street in San Francisco earlier in the day — and offered a pregame "shoutout" to the man with the integrity to return the money."Kept walking, didn't know it. The guy tapped me on the back and said, 'that's your money,'" Rivers shared. "I don't know a lot of places that that would happen, but it happened today, so whoever that was he could have had free tickets if you hadn't ran away."TIP-INSClippers: Williams scored 17 points in the third to match Chris Paul's postseason franchise record done May 5, 2014, against Oklahoma City. ... The L.A. backups scored another 83 points after getting 65 in the opener. In fact, in Game 1, Harrell (26) and Williams (25) were the first teammates to come off the bench and score 25 or more points in a postseason game since bench stats began in 1970-71, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.Warriors: With his 129th career playoff game, Durant passed Kerr for 73rd place on the NBA's all-time list. ... C Andrew Bogut (419) moved by Clifford Ray (411) for sixth place on the Warriors' career postseason rebounds list.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPHILADELPHIA — D'Angelo Russell rang up a scoring burst that helped Brooklyn dial up an upset and filled Philly's home court with a barrage of boos.All-Star Ben Simmons wants to put the fans on mute — and the Sixers could stand to silence their cellphones."If you're going to boo, then stay on that side," Simmons said.Russell flashed some postseason magic, playing like the All-Star leader Brooklyn needed with 26 points, and Caris LeVert scored 23 to lead the Nets to an impressive 111-102 win Saturday over the 76ers in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series."We've got the right pieces to keep it going," Russell said.Check out this update on a mobile device: A Nets team that got hot late just to make the playoffs has the upper hand on the road over a 51-win team stocked with stars."I think earlier in the season, especially when we were struggling, we'd lose games like that," coach Kenny Atkinson said.Not in April.Russell, LeVert and Spencer Dinwiddie gave the Sixers fits off the dribble, buried open looks from 3-point range (11 of 26) and smoked a Sixers team that resembled one straight out of the early Process era.Russell got the first win of his playoff career and the last laugh, scoring 14 points in the third quarter and leading the Nets to one of the biggest wins since they moved to Brooklyn. It came days after Los Angeles Lakers executive Magic Johnson, who dumped Russell on the Nets, resigned. Russell, who scored 19 points in the second half, can safely scroll through his phone to see his Nets are trending.The 76ers might want to keep their phones on lock.Sixers benchwarmer Amir Johnson was caught by TV cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone late in the fourth quarter and the Sixers down big. Johnson showed All-Star Joel Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid it into his warmup pants pocket.Embiid said Johnson received an update on a sick daughter. Sixers coach Brett Brown called Johnson's actions "completely unacceptable."So was Philadelphia's performance.Jimmy Butler scored 36 points and saved the Sixers, widely considered a favorite to at least reach the East semis, from losing by 25. Embiid slogged his way through 24 forgettable minutes on his bum left knee. Simmons was a postseason dud against Russell, his high school teammate.The sixth-seeded Nets turned Philly in the city of 20,000 boos — and that's just counting the ones echoing throughout the Wells Fargo Center — as they phoned in one of their worst efforts of the season.Sixers starters Simmons, Tobias Harris and JJ Redick combined to shoot 11 of 31 from the floor for 18 points. The Sixers missed 22 of 25 3-pointers."We all got to do a better job. Us. The fans. We have to bring the fun," Embiid said.Poised for a postseason breakthrough, Russell flourished and hit a string of jumpers in the third that never let the Sixers seriously chip away at the lead. LeVert's third 3 in the fourth made it a 16-point game and there was no looking back — at least not for Russell as he raised his arms in celebration as he headed down the tunnel into Brooklyn's locker room."I trust our offense. We got great minds behind it," Russell said. "Coach set us up earlier this season with a routine and recipe for the offense and it's been flowing ever since."Embiid was introduced to a roaring standing ovation and heard chants of "MVP!" and "Trust the Process" when he opened the game with two free throws.But he just wasn't ready to play at an All-Star level for any serious length of time. He was hit with a technical when he shoved Jared Dudley to the ground and went back to the locker room for more treatment with about 3 minutes left in the first half. He scored 22 points — including 12 free throws — and had 15 rebounds.Butler kept the Sixers in the game with a sensational first half that showed why the franchise surrendered so much to land the four-time All-Star. He buried a 3 at the horn to send the Sixers into the break down 62-54. He was 6 of 10 and scored 23 points while the rest of the Sixers shot 10 of 38 for 31 points.Embiid has always fancied himself a 3-point shooter, and with tendinitis in his left knee that cost him most of the final month of the season rendering him immobile, he decided to camp out a bit more beyond the arc. He missed all five 3s in the half — and the Sixers missed their first 11."I thought that Joel looked like he hadn't played for a while yet was still dominant," Brown said.With or without a healthy Embiid, the Nets were about unstoppable for much of the half with the Sixers clearly not ready to play. Dinwiddie and DeMarre Carroll hit consecutive 3s during a 12-0 run. LeVert hit two straight 3s for a 14-point lead and the Sixers — who had been the darlings of the city during the Process — were soundly booed off the court by 20,000 fans ticked off at a supposed East contender.TIP-INSNets: C Jarrett Allen was whistled for fouls on Philadelphia's first two possessions.76ers: Butler and Tobias Harris are both eligible for free agency and could stick around after they were acquired in mid-season trades. Team owner Josh Harris said both players could be re-signed. "It's really hard to get good players of their caliber. Now that we've attracted them into our system, we're going to work really hard at keeping them around for a while," Harris said.VOTE OF CONFIDENCE?Harris said Brown was a "great coach" but offered no assurance he would return to the bench for another season if the Sixers failed to make a deep run in the playoffs."We think he's the right leader to take us where we need to go in the playoffs," Harris said. "I'm focused on the Brooklyn Nets."UP NEXTGame 2 is Monday in Philadelphia.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. season unofficially began with a superstar’s trade demand before the superstar in question (Jimmy Butler) and his team at the time (Minnesota) had even convened for training camp.Seven months and more than 1,200 games later, Magic Johnson upstaged the retirements of two legends — Dirk Nowitzki and Dwyane Wade — in unbecoming fashion by abruptly walking away from Jeanie Buss, LeBron James and the rest of the Los Angeles Lakers through a chaotic hour of unscheduled interviews with the news media.And there were countless dramas and controversies between those bookends, from the Houston Rockets’ poor start and near-instant divorce from Carmelo Anthony ... to the sad disintegration of the New Orleans Pelicans’ season after Anthony Davis’s trade demand … to the Lakers’ injury-driven collapse that ultimately prevented King James from reaching the postseason for the first time in 14 years.Regular season? Hardly. From Butler’s trade request to Friday’s announcement from the Lakers that they were parting ways with Coach Luke Walton, it was an exhausting ride. Yet we’ve finally arrived where we wanted to be all along: Saturday’s start of the playoffs.The overriding question now, as we step off that roller coaster and onto another, remains Golden State-centric for the fourth successive spring:Can anyone out there beat the Warriors four times in a seven-game series?My answer remains a firm no. But what will make this postseason unlike any other, beyond LeBron’s absence, is the array of ancillary questions sure to sprout about the futures of the Warriors and many of the teams chasing them.Only 80 days away, remember, is the July 1 start of a free-agent frenzy that is bound to be strongly influenced by playoff results. The principals: Golden State’s Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and DeMarcus Cousins; Boston’s Kyrie Irving; Toronto’s Kawhi Leonard; Philadelphia’s Tobias Harris and Butler; Milwaukee’s Khris Middleton; Charlotte’s Kemba Walker; and Orlando’s Nikola Vucevic.Just to name 10 past, present and future All-Stars.“I think this summer is going to be the most pivotal time in N.B.A. history,” said Charles Barkley, Turner Sports’ Hall of Fame analyst. “It’s going to dictate the next five years.”Any chance the Raptors have of persuading Leonard to stay in Canada, after months of noise suggesting that the Los Angeles Clippers are the front-runners to sign him, would seem to depend on a run to the N.B.A. finals. The Raptors are indeed my pick to get there by winning the post-LeBron East, but the high stakes involved, along with Toronto’s tortured playoff history, will weigh heavily on this team despite its potential as a defensive juggernaut.The pressure is even more tangible in Philadelphia thanks to the 76ers’ all-in trades for Harris and Butler. Those two, along with the sharpshooting J J Redick, are all free agents-to-be. It’s a lot for Sixers Coach Brett Brown to manage, especially when his best player, Joel Embiid, may not be available for the start of Philadelphia’s first-round series with the Nets because of a knee issue that has lingered since the All-Star Game. Whispers about Brown’s job security, as a result, are starting to circulate.Uncertainty likewise smothers the Celtics, who failed to even win 50 games and openly grappled with chemistry issues after finding the reintegration of Irving and Gordon Hayward, the former All-Star swingman, far more complicated than anyone — Boston officials included — expected. Fears of a two-round injury absence for the rugged guard Marcus Smart don’t help, with the looming specter of Irving’s free agency and a possible trade pursuit of Davis adding to the tension.Milwaukee, meanwhile, has the statistical profile of a team that should be heavily favored to represent the East in the finals and potentially take down the Warriors — except for the fact that the next playoff series won by the otherworldly Giannis Antetokounmpo will be his first. The Bucks are the only team in the league that ranked in the top five in offensive and defensive efficiency, but I confess to being one of those old-school pundits hung up on their lack of big-game experience.Denver is the West’s answer to Milwaukee and proof as a No. 2 seed that there were some uplifting tales to celebrate amid all of the transactional chaos and personality conflicts that tend to dominate the league’s slice of the social media universe. But the Nuggets’ own inexperience didn’t just steer me away from naming them as the Warriors’ top threat in the conference — it makes them vulnerable in Round 1 against San Antonio.It’s Houston, then, which stands as the team most capable of derailing the Warriors’ bid for a three-peat. Houston’s problem is that a costly slip to the No. 4 seed in the West dropped it into Golden State’s half of the playoff bracket. The Rockets now must face the Utah Jazz in a first-round matchup featuring the hottest (Houston went 20-5) and third-hottest (Utah went 18-7) teams since the All-Star break.For all the talk that the Rockets may benefit from a rematch with the Warriors in the conference semifinals rather than the West finals, when James Harden and Chris Paul are theoretically fresher, it may actually be Golden State that benefits the most from watching Houston and Utah beating each other up so early.The Warriors won’t refuse the help, either, because their veterans and coaches would undoubtedly argue that their regular-season grind is longer than anyone’s after four consecutive trips to the championship round. Ceaseless speculation about Durant’s potential free-agent defection to the Knicks or the Nets — yes, I’m indeed warning you now not to sleep on Brooklyn — has only added to Coach Steve Kerr’s daily challenge to keep his team focused.Another warning: Don’t forget that the Warriors tend to find that focus quickly once the calendar flips to the postseason. So many of their last 82 games were billed as uncharacteristically joyless, but Golden State is 32-6 in the playoffs since adding Durant.As long as Stephen Curry’s ankle scare earlier this week scare proves as minor as it appeared, bank on the Warriors to become the first team in 52 seasons — out of the 744 teams to reach the playoffs in that time — to make a fifth straight finals appearance. And then snag title No. 4 to cement themselves as indisputably dynastic.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The evolution of Giannis Antetokounmpo into a global star has been playing out for six seasons. It manifests in soaring dunks, or blocked shots from the weak side that defy logic, or wraparound passes to an open shooter, or crossover dribbles that leave defenders reeling in his impossibly long-limbed wake.But Pat Connaughton, a reserve guard, did not have the opportunity to witness Antetokounmpo’s feats on a daily basis until last summer, when he signed with the Milwaukee Bucks and joined his new teammates for scrimmages ahead of training camp.“You’d see him do something ridiculous, and I’d be looking around and nobody would be reacting,” Connaughton recalled. “Like, ‘Did you guys not just see that?’”For the players who have been around Antetokounmpo the longest, there may be an element of genius fatigue at work — not that they take him for granted. Malcolm Brogdon, a third-year guard, tried to provide some context for Connaughton at one of those early scrimmages.“You’ll get used to it after a while,” Brogdon told him. “It happens all the time.”Antetokounmpo, 24, has turned the sublime into the routine. But the novelty has not worn off for N.B.A. fans, who have made him appointment viewing this season, and the Bucks have shaped themselves into contenders by following his lead. On top of that, nearly two years after Kobe Bryant, the retired Los Angeles Lakers guard, challenged Antetokounmpo to win the league’s Most Valuable Player Award, he may be on the verge of upending the Eastern Conference to do so.“Everything you see about him or hear about him is how hard he works,” Lakers Coach Luke Walton said, “and how great he wants to be.”The Bucks improved their league-best record to 48-14 after coming from behind to defeat the Lakers on Friday night at Staples Center. Antetokounmpo, who has been dealing with right knee soreness, finished with 16 points and 15 rebounds in the Bucks’ 131-120 win, which qualified as a quiet effort for him. But he had his moments.Early in the fourth quarter, he sized up Mike Muscala, his 6-foot-11 defender, at the top of the perimeter. He took a couple of hard dribbles into the paint, threw his right shoulder into Muscala to knock him off balance, then dunked over him with his left hand.“He draws so much attention,” Bucks Coach Mike Budenholzer said.It was a play that helped ignite the Bucks, who enjoyed an eventful day. After point guard Eric Bledsoe agreed to a four-year, $70 million contract extension in the afternoon, he roasted the Lakers for a season-high 31 points. In addition, Pau Gasol was expected to join the team after securing a buyout from the San Antonio Spurs.“Unbelievable guy,” Antetokounmpo said of Gasol. “He’s been to the finals. He has so much experience. I think he’s definitely going to help us.”The Bucks are readying for a playoff run with Antetokounmpo as their focal point. Entering their game against the Utah Jazz on Saturday night, Antetokounmpo was averaging 26.8 points, 12.6 rebounds and 5.9 assists while shooting 57.9 percent from the field.“When the season started, we knew we had something special — we had a great team,” he said. “But to be honest with you, no, I never thought we were going to have the best record in the N.B.A.“But I think we’ve worked hard for it, we go out there and show up for every game, and we try to win every game.”There is no apt historical comparison for Antetokounmpo because the league has never seen anyone quite like him. He is too long and too strong, too quick and too skilled, a 6-foot-11 power forward who can defend point guards at one end and post up the league’s stoutest centers at the other. As for Antetokounmpo’s unique athleticism, Connaughton considers him to be something of a hybrid of Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors and LeBron James of the Lakers.“He’s got the length of K.D.,” Connaughton said, “but now he’s at the point where he’s got the strength of LeBron — or at least he’s on that trajectory. And that speaks volumes about his work ethic and his desire to be the best that he can be. Because not a lot of guys with that talent work that hard.”Connaughton, whose playing time has fluctuated this season, often goes to the team’s practice facility on off days for extra shooting and conditioning work. Antetokounmpo, Connaughton said, is always there, too. He is a gym rat in the second year of a four-year, $100 million contract. Connaughton joined the Bucks after three seasons with the Portland Trail Blazers, and he said Antetokounmpo plays with the same motor — the same mind-set — as Damian Lillard, the Blazers’ All-Star point guard.“Obviously Dame is a different player, but I think they share an inner desire,” Connaughton said. “It has nothing to do with the outside. It has nothing to do with the media, the attention or the press. Like, they’re in it for their own reasons — the right reasons, in my opinion.”Whenever Budenholzer is asked about it, which is often these days, he makes a compelling case for Antetokounmpo as the N.B.A.’s most valuable player — and he cites his defense as Exhibit A. Antetokounmpo is so dynamic on offense, Budenholzer said, that it tends to overshadow everything else is does. Sure enough, he had three blocked shots against the Lakers.Antetokounmpo is not going to create headlines with bold predictions — after Friday’s win, he repeated familiar mantras about taking it “day by day” and continuing to “work hard” — but the Bucks must be thinking big. All around them, powerhouse teams are struggling. Even the Warriors, the two-time defending champions, have had issues.Few thought the Bucks would be this good this quickly, but everyone was saying the same thing about Antetokounmpo when he entered the league at age 19. Suddenly, the future is now.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaSACRAMENTO — The Boston Celtics were not in a good place when they boarded a plane bound for California on Sunday. They were coming off a home loss to the Houston Rockets that point guard Kyrie Irving punctuated by using a total of 43 words to answer nine questions in his postgame news conference.At one point, he was asked whether he thought the team could cobble together some momentum on its West Coast trip.“We’ll see,” he whispered.Just one season removed from a run to the N.B.A.’s Eastern Conference finals, and seemingly improved by the re-addition of Gordon Hayward and the continued development of their young core, the Celtics were on the brink of falling apart. Any hope they still harbored of being a championship-ready team was as brittle as a toothpick.But after some reflection and conversation, the Celtics regained a bit of their swagger with back-to-back wins this week against the Golden State Warriors and the Sacramento Kings. The Celtics will see if they can keep the good vibes going on Saturday against the Los Angeles Lakers, which is anything but certain, especially for Irving, whose season has been clouded by questions about his future with the team.Such uncertainty does not make Irving unique in the modern N.B.A. — Kevin Durant of the Warriors and Kawhi Leonard of the Toronto Raptors are among the other stars who will weigh big decisions in free agency this summer — but the Celtics have let the noise affect them.With the two wins this week improving their record to 40-26, the Celtics may be showing signs that they are finally, mercifully, learning how to cope.“That long plane ride helped us out,” Irving said after Tuesday’s lopsided victory over the Warriors. “I’ll just say that. We needed it. We needed it. We were going to get to a point where we were just going to get tired of fighting each other, fighting the outside world when it doesn’t really matter. So we just wanted to come out here and play basketball.“This is our sanctuary, and we have to do everything we can to protect it. We can’t let anyone infiltrate it.”Irving, who missed Wednesday’s win against the Kings with a left thigh contusion, is averaging a team-leading 23.4 points a game along with 7 assists and 4.9 rebounds, both career highs. He is also shooting 49.5 percent from the field and 41.7 percent from 3-point range.He also ranks among the N.B.A. leaders in mercurial behavior. He has been vague about the specific source of his discontent, but it may have something to do with his pending free agency.Irving backed off an earlier pledge to re-sign with the Celtics after they struggled at the start of the season. In fact, during a trip to New York to play the Knicks on Feb. 1, he told a group of reporters in his own colorfully abrasive way that he did not owe anyone anything. The Knicks, of course, would be interested in signing Irving, a six-time All-Star who grew up in New Jersey and has a soft spot for Madison Square Garden.Then came the All-Star break, and a clip of Irving and Durant having an inaudible conversation found its way to the internet, where an army of amateur lip readers tried to decode what they were saying. Worth noting: Irving and Durant are close friends. Also worth noting: The Knicks will have enough cap space this summer for two max contracts.Irving refused to shed light on their chat, and said it was nobody’s business, which was his prerogative. But it had the general effect of using a napkin to mop up an oil spill.Since then, Irving has been alluding to nefarious forces and the steep cost of celebrity, saying he hates the spotlight — even as he sells sneakers and moonlights as an actor. He reiterated his disdain this week after collecting 19 points and 11 assists against the Warriors, his 17th double-double this season.“The business part of it is just what makes it terrible for me — honestly, dealing with all this,” he said, referring to the reporters around him. “I’m going to be honest with you guys: The basketball part of it? I have to keep that fun. That’s where I’m great. Being around my teammates, that’s what makes me happy. And the business part of it is going to be business.”It was not lost on anyone who witnessed this exchange that Irving was bashing the business of basketball while wearing an Uncle Drew ball cap — the same Uncle Drew character he popularized in soft drink commercials and then parlayed into a movie released last year.As for the basketball itself, well, Boston has had an uneven season, the product of a team that is not nearly Lakers-level dysfunctional but is not exactly cohesive, either. The Celtics arrived for their game against the Warriors having lost five of their last six games, and their locker room was a joyless place.Perhaps they needed to get away from Boston. Perhaps they needed perspective. Perhaps Irving needed to speak with Danny Ainge, the team’s president of basketball operations, and Brad Stevens, its coach, who reminded Irving that the team still had a lot of season left to play. It was not over, not yet, not by any stretch.“Every team has to find a togetherness in competing,” Stevens said. “Some teams, it takes 60 games. Some teams, it takes 20 games. And bad teams never get there. We hope that it took us 60 games, but we’ll see. We haven’t proven ourselves to be great at that yet for a long stretch of time.”In their 128-95 win against the Warriors, the Celtics had 38 assists on 49 field goals. They also communicated. When Irving and forward Jaylen Brown botched a play that led to an early turnover, Brown patted himself on the chest to apologize, then appeared to apologize a second time on their next trip up the court.The next night, in Sacramento, Irving sat behind the visiting bench for the Celtics’ 111-109 victory over the Kings. He was vocal. He did a lot of fist-pumping. And he celebrated when Hayward, less than 24 hours after scoring 30 points against the Warriors, connected on the game-winner.After suffering a grisly ankle injury in the opening game and missing last season, Hayward has struggled to find a rhythm in his return. Maybe he found it here in California, along with the rest of the team. The Celtics are too talented to let this opportunity go to waste, because who knows how long it will last?“As long as my teammates are feeling good,” Irving said, “then we’re in a good place.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAs the crowd filed out of the Barclays Center in May 2015, there was reason for hope. Though the Nets had just been eliminated by the Atlanta Hawks in the first round of the playoffs, they had overachieved and shown some promise for the future. And Phil Jackson had become the Knicks president the year before, bringing his triangle offense and a coaching résumé that included 11 N.B.A. titles to Manhattan.Little did New York fans know that it would be four dreadful years before playoff basketball would return to the city. It finally will on Thursday night, when the Nets host the Philadelphia 76ers in a series tied at one all.While there has been no playoff basketball in the city in the interim, much has happened in those four years. And for Knicks and Nets fans, not much of it has been good.May 1, 2015 The eighth-seeded Nets fall to the top-seeded Hawks, 111-87. But they take two games in the series, raising optimism. “We were able to secure a playoff spot,” Coach Lionel Hollins says. “Some people will say, ‘Hey, we didn’t deserve it.’ That’s their problem.”June 25 After putting up a 17-65 record, the worst in franchise history and the league’s second worst in 2015, the Knicks have bad luck in the draft lottery, ending up at the No. 4 spot. Nevertheless, their selection, Kristaps Porzingis of Latvia, will pay off, quickly becoming a star and a fan favorite.Oct. 3 Knicks Coach Derek Fisher gets into a physical altercation after being confronted by Matt Barnes of the Memphis Grizzlies at the home of Barnes’s estranged wife. Barnes is suspended for two games.Dec. 30 Cleanthony Early of the Knicks is shot in the knee by masked men and robbed of gold teeth caps after a visit to a strip club.Jan. 10, 2016 The Nets fire Coach Hollins and demote General Manager Billy King with the team at 10-27. “Frankly speaking, I deserve a championship now much more than six years ago,”  owner Mikhail D. Prokhorov says.Feb. 8 The Knicks, 23-31, fire Fisher. “There’s not a whole lot to say,” Jackson says in his first remarks to reporters since the start of training camp.April 13 The Nets finish the season 21-61, the league’s third worst record. But there will be little help on draft day: They traded their top pick to the Celtics in 2014 for a 37-year-old Kevin Garnett and a 36-year-old Paul Pierce, both of whom are gone at this point.The Knicks finish 32-50. That’s a 15-game improvement, but Jackson says, “We’re disappointed about our season.”April 17 The Nets hire Kenny Atkinson, a Hawks assistant, as head coach. “Together, we can do great things,” Prokhorov says.June 2 The Knicks hire Jeff Hornacek as coach, bypassing the interim coach, Kurt Rambis.June 22 The Knicks trade for Derrick Rose, who proclaims them a “superteam.” After a year he will leave for the Cleveland Cavaliers.July 7 The Nets sign Jeremy Lin, perhaps hoping to recapture the Linsanity that took over the Knicks in 2012.July 8 The Knicks sign Joakim Noah for four years and $72 million. This will not work out. Noah will be suspended for 20 games for a drug violation, be sent to the developmental league and get into a shouting match with Hornacek. The Knicks wind up releasing him in 2018 and paying him anyway.Feb. 8, 2017 The Knicks legend Charles Oakley is ejected from Madison Square Garden during a game. The crowd sides with the former player, chanting “Oakley, Oakley.” The Knicks say he behaved abusively, and the owner, James L. Dolan, says that Oakley “may have a problem with alcohol.” Oakley sues, claiming defamation and battery.March 12 Carmelo Anthony gets his 10,000th point as a Knick, becoming the third player to reach that mark with two teams.April 12 The Nets finish 20-62, the worst record in the league. Once again a potentially high draft pick is gone, as part of the Garnett deal. The Knicks are 31-51.June 22 The Nets trade their longtime star Brook Lopez to the Los Angeles Lakers for D’Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov. Russell will become a key player in the team’s resurgence.June 28 The Knicks and Phil Jackson agree to part ways after three years. The Knicks never fully embraced his triangle offense, and Jackson remained wary of the 3-point shot as it became increasingly important in the league. He also could never seem to get rid of Anthony, the team’s aging star who refused to waive a no-trade clause. Jackson also feuded with the player expected to be the team’s future, Porzingis.Sept. 25 A trade is finally worked out for Anthony, who is sent to the Oklahoma City Thunder for Enes Kanter. He gave the Knicks seven seasons of 20-points-a-game play. Jackson was willing “to trade me for a bag of chips,” Anthony says. He also notes that under new management, “They went from asking for peanuts to asking for steak.”Oct. 18 Lin ruptures a knee tendon  in the Nets’ opening game and misses the entire season.Feb. 6, 2018 Porzingis tears the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee and is out for the rest of this season and the next one.April 11 The Nets finish 28-54. Incredibly, for a third straight year they do not have their top pick because of that Garnett deal. (Garnett is by now 41 and has been out of the league two years.) The lost picks turned into Jaylen Brown, a big part of the contending Celtics; Markelle Fultz, a No. 1 overall choice; and Collin Sexton, who averaged 17 points as a rookie with the Cleveland Cavaliers.The Knicks wind up 29-53 and fire Hornacek the next day. David Fizdale will be the new coach.Asked how the Knicks can improve, the superfan Spike Lee can only turn to prayer: “On bended knee I pray above to da basketball gods to deliver us back to da glory years of da Orange and Blue. Amen,” he writes in The New York Times.June 20 The Nets make a trade to get Dwight Howard from the Hornets, but Howard buys his way out of his contract and never plays for them.July 13 The Nets trade Lin to the Hawks, curing the city’s second, significantly milder case of Linsanity.Jan. 31, 2019 The Knicks  send their most popular player, Porzingis, who is still recovering from the torn A.C.L., to the Dallas Mavericks in a blockbuster trade. Two months later it will be revealed that he is under investigation by the New York Police Department after being accused of sexual assault.The Knicks get Dennis Smith Jr. and some expiring contracts, which should open up salary cap space so they can sign some marquee free agents. Assuming that marquee free agents would want to play for the Knicks.March 12 Knicks fans hoping for a change in ownership are disappointed when Dolan proclaims that he will not sell the team, even for $6 billion. Two days before that, he was filmed threatening a fan with banishment from the Garden after the fan had urged him to sell the team.April 10 The Knicks have sunk to the bottom of the league again, finishing 17-65 and tying the franchise-worst mark. The Nets start the season 8-18, but then unexpectedly turn things around behind Russell, Spencer Dinwiddie (picked up from the developmental league in 2016) and Jarrett Allen (a No. 22 pick in 2017). They finish 42-40. Playoff basketball returns to New York. For now.An earlier version of this article misstated the Knicks’ record in the 2014-15 season. They were 17-65, not 17-63.Benjamin Hoffman contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alex WongNathaniel Butler has been an N.B.A. senior photographer since 1984. Those were the days of shooting on film and developing photos in hotel rooms after games. Today, players text Butler as they arrive at the arena so he can be in position to capture a perfect arena entrance shot for them to post on Instagram.The job isn’t what it used to be.When Andrew D. Bernstein became an official N.B.A. photographer in 1986, he was continually thwarted in his attempts to get his camera into in-game huddles to capture the interactions between players and coaches. Pat Riley, who was the coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, made sure to obscure all viewpoints.Halfway through the season, Riley asked Bernstein why he wanted to be in the huddle. People want to see what’s happening on the inside, Bernstein told Riley, who agreed to give Bernstein a chance. If you screw up, Riley said, you are never coming back.More than three decades later, Bernstein is still photographing N.B.A. players, huddles and pretty much whatever he pleases as the league’s longest tenured senior photographer.Photographers have long played a critical role in shaping narratives in a league defined by faces and moments. The most iconic posters are the finished works of the photographers who position themselves along the baseline each game, often contorting their bodies and forgetting about personal comfort to get closer and take countless snaps, in hopes of capturing a masterpiece.In today’s N.B.A., they allow players to use those photographs as building blocks for their social media profiles. They have adapted to an ever-changing digital world that has presented new opportunities and a whole new set of challenges.On game day, Butler uses a combination of tethered remotes and custom phone apps to operate any number of cameras in an arena.He sends photographs to a team of editors in Secaucus, N.J., with the press of a button. In seconds, they can be published on the league’s official social media feeds and reach millions of people around the world.Despite the technological advances, shooting an N.B.A. game can be more difficult than one would think. “A basketball game is a complex situation,” said Bruce Ely, the lead photographer of the Portland Trail Blazers. “There are a lot of moving parts.”Like a fan’s arms waving across the frame just as Damian Lillard makes a 3-pointer. Or the leg of another player sneaking into the edge of the image, ruining a portrait. Another time, it might be a referee walking into a perfect shot.Despite the challenges, some N.B.A. photographers do not consider it their most difficult assignment. Nelson Campana, who photographs the Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team, regularly shoots weddings as well. The pressure of game night is nothing compared with the responsibility of chronicling a couple’s special day.“You have one night to make it right,” Campana said. “There’s a list of things you need to get, and you don’t get another chance. At a basketball game, you’re just hoping things happen.”Some nights, there is too much happening at the same time. As the Oklahoma City Thunder eliminated the San Antonio Spurs in the 2016 playoffs, Butler had to make a split-second decision about what to photograph at the buzzer. He focused on Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook embracing, and then got a shot of Durant with Tim Duncan. He stayed with Durant afterward, but that meant missing a chance to capture Duncan walking off an N.B.A. court for the final time.“Ideally,” Butler said, “I would like to be in two places at one time.”While some players enjoy being on the other side of these photographers’ lenses, others say it is an adjustment. Aaron Gordon of the Orlando Magic first remembers being in front of a camera as a high schooler being interviewed after winning a basketball tournament.“You have to live in a way where you’re O.K. with being seen,” Gordon said. “You’re always being watched these days.”Because so many photos are being taken, players have to accept that they can control only so much of what is shared online.“You want to nitpick every single picture,” said John Collins, a second-year forward with the Atlanta Hawks. “But it just can’t work that way. You can’t read everything about yourself and see every photo of yourself.”To take more control over their visual narratives on social media, players are working with photographers to shoot them outside basketball arenas.Cassy Athena is a professional photographer who has earned the trust of players around the league. Last season, at All-Star Weekend in Los Angeles, Athena followed Stephen Curry and his wife, Ayesha, for the entire weekend. She was also invited by Indiana Pacers guard Victor Oladipo to shoot him at New York Fashion Week in 2018.Athena says it takes time to convince certain players of the value of her photographs.“It’s not so much they don’t understand the importance of the moment,” she said. “It’s convincing them why they should share it with the world. When it clicks, you get guys who might not be the best N.B.A. player, but they use this” — meaning Instagram and professional photos — “to build their own brand and further their careers.”Older, more established players worry less about their online persona but more about how the images carry a nostalgic value as their careers wind down.“What photographers do may seem minute,” said Vince Carter, 42, who just ended his 21st season in the league. “But I’ve seen so many shots of the best moments of my career, and in some ways, they’ve helped me remember those moments.”Many of these iconic images can now be seen on the Instagram pages of the photographers themselves. Bernstein said he was the last guy dragged kicking and screaming into the social media era. He now enjoys posting classic pictures for Throwback Thursday.Butler adds watermarks to the photographs he posts on his feed because other accounts and publications will often publish them without giving him credit. But he recognizes the value of being online. “It opens you up to a whole other audience,” Butler said.The rise of social media accounts means there are now more photographers at N.B.A. games. Butler prefers to use a camera lens that does not require him to be right in the face of players to capture them up close. In the modern era, he has noticed a lot of camera phones being shoved into players’ faces.“There’s an etiquette that doesn’t exist anymore,” Butler said. “Not just in sports, but in society.”Even though photographers want to capture every moment, some also realize that there are boundaries. A few months ago, Kyrie Irving and Durant had a private conversation at All-Star Weekend in Charlotte, N.C., which was captured on film. It was circulated online, and many believed the two were discussing their heavily rumored plans to join the Knicks together this summer.“If I was a player, that would bother me,” Butler said. “You don’t have to document every second of their existence.”Bernstein had a similar decision to make more than 30 years ago, during the 1988 N.B.A. finals, when he walked through the Lakers’ locker room after a loss and found Magic Johnson and Michael Cooper with their uniforms on, dejected as the showers were running around them.It was a one-of-a-kind moment, but Bernstein opted against taking the photograph.“That was their time,” Bernstein said. “That didn’t need to be documented. I have that picture in my mind, and that’s enough.”An earlier version of this article described Nelson Campana’s job incorrectly. He photographs the Toronto Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team; he is not the team photographer.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byStars being added to Eastern Conference powerhouses drew most of the headlines, but there were other moves that could prove significant.By Benjamin HoffmanN.B.A. fans can be forgiven for being distracted by shiny objects. And there are few objects shinier than a star who is being added to a playoff contender.But even though the powerhouses of the Eastern Conference went to war over which team could add the biggest piece, it is worth taking a look at some under-the-radar moves that could prove significant this season or in the near future. Amid the flurry of moves this week, these three deals stood out as opportunities for players to thrive in situations far more advantageous to their careers than where they had been, which could end up paying significant dividends to the teams that acquired them.The Magic are trading Jonathon Simmons, a first-round pick and a second-round pick to the Philadelphia 76ers for Fultz, according to The Athletic.Why it matters: The very public breakdown of Fultz’s career has made any move involving him relevant. A consensus No. 1 pick in the 2017 draft after a terrific freshman season at Washington, Fultz was viewed by Philadelphia as the endgame of the team’s long-running Process. The Sixers traded the No. 3 pick in that draft (which ended up being Jayson Tatum) and a future first-round pick (likely to be Sacramento’s pick in this year’s draft) to Boston so they could move up two spots to get him.Things fell apart almost immediately. Fultz’s shooting form went from quirky to horrendous, debates emerged as to whether he had been injured or had simply lost his confidence, and he played just 14 games last season and 19 this season before shutting down with a diagnosis of thoracic outlet syndrome.No one knows what Fultz is capable of, but it had become painfully obvious that he was not going to have the opportunity to play his way through his problems with the Sixers, a team that believes it has a legitimate chance of winning the East this year.In Orlando, the pressure should be turned down considerably. The team values length, and while Fultz is a modest 6-foot-4, he has a seven-foot wingspan and has at times shown flashes of brilliance, including during a game last April in which he became the first teenager to officially record a triple-double in the N.B.A.In this week’s trade, Philadelphia managed to land a few picks to replace what it gave up to be able to draft Fultz. But Simmons is primarily filler to make the trade work, and the move is mostly about clearing an unproductive player off the Sixers’ roster and letting him try to find a better situation elsewhere. As Fultz looks to avoid joining Anthony Bennett and LaRue Martin as the biggest busts to be taken with the No. 1 overall pick, Orlando seems as good of a place as any to get started.The Kings traded Justin Jackson and Zach Randolph to the Dallas Mavericks for Barnes.Why it matters: The Kings entered Thursday night’s games as the No. 9 seed in the West, one and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers and one game ahead of the Los Angeles Lakers. With the Clippers having just traded Tobias Harris, the door is open for Sacramento to secure its first playoff spot since 2006.Sacramento plays extraordinarily fast, partly as a result of repeatedly using lineups with three guards, but they play at a significant size disadvantage.Enter Barnes, a 6-8 small forward who gives the team a bigger body without requiring the offense to slow down all that much.It’s hard to remember after three productive-if-uninspiring seasons in Dallas, but Barnes was once a member of Golden State’s ultrafluid Death Lineup, and if he can get back to a 3-and-D style of play, he could be a perfect addition to the Kings’ starting five, though that does not mean the deal is without drawbacks.First and foremost, Barnes has been used to a high-usage role in Dallas, and that will not be available to him in Sacramento, a team with an offensive pecking order that will make him a third option at best. He also has let his defense slide to the point where he was a net negative on the court for Dallas. The Kings will probably be on the hook for his $25.1 million player option next year, and if he isn’t on board to shift his style of play, he could make the team worse.All of that said, Barnes is still just 26, and after winning a championship in his third season, and 73 regular-season games in his fourth year, he has not sniffed the playoffs since. A return to a relevant team could unlock the complementary player who helped Golden State soar, and for a franchise that has often been accused of sabotaging itself, this is a real attempt to make the team better.The Bulls traded Jabari Parker and Bobby Portis to the Washington Wizards for Porter. Why it matters: Neither team is going anywhere this season, but Chicago is trying to set up the team’s future by acquiring Porter, a player with loads of potential — and an enormous contract — who has sometimes failed to click in Washington.Porter, a 25-year-old forward who has plenty of size at 6-8, has seen his statistics decline this season, at least in part because of the overall decline of the Wizards. But at his best, he is capable of shooting better than 40 percent from 3-point range while also contributing rebounding and passing. For an example of why Chicago would take a flier on a frustrating player owed a great deal of money, look no further than one of the players he was traded for: Parker. Last off-season, the Bulls had money to spend and wanted to make a free-agent splash. Parker, a player known as much for being injury prone as for being defense-averse, was the best they could do. In Porter they pick up a young player with plenty of potential who is owed a little more than $27 million next season and has a player option of a bit less than $28.5 million in 2020-21. That is probably better than what Chicago could get on the open market, which makes it worth saying goodbye to Portis, a decent rotation player who was mostly wasted on a team that is several big pieces away from contention.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaOAKLAND, Calif. — The Golden State Warriors run a practice drill that Coach Steve Kerr did not intend as a tribute, even if he named it after someone who taught him a great deal. He calls it the “Lute Olson drill,” and it is a blur of activity: a 3-on-2 exercise that Kerr uses to get his players up and down the court.“It’s a good way to get a little running and rhythm and shooting,” he said.The Warriors, who are pretty good at those things, have elevated basketball into modern art in recent seasons. But Kerr, as he helps define basketball’s present, cannot help but dip into his past. He learned that drill in 1983, when he was a freshman guard at the University of Arizona playing for Olson, who was in the early stages of building a college powerhouse. Kerr, ever the student, was already absorbing as much as he could.Olson, 84, retired as the men’s basketball coach at Arizona in 2008, but his influence resonates. Not so much, oddly enough, at the college level, where, of late, Arizona has had its well-publicized struggles along with the rest of the Pac-12 Conference. Instead, Olson’s impact exists largely in the N.B.A. — and with the Warriors, in particular.Bruce Fraser, one of Kerr’s longtime assistants, played for Olson in the 1980s before working under him as a graduate assistant. And Andre Iguodala, the veteran Warriors forward, played at Arizona from 2002 to 2004, when he sought to emulate an older teammate named Luke Walton.“All the fundamentals,” Iguodala said. “Things like footwork, body positioning and just being a smart player.”Walton, who now has the thankless task of coaching the Los Angeles Lakers, is still considered a member of the Warriors’ extended family after serving as one of Kerr’s assistants for two seasons. Before Walton joined the Warriors in 2014, Kerr did not know him well. But Olson recommended him, and that was more than enough.“If you came out of Arizona during that era, you knew how to play the game,” Fraser said. “And that was mostly because of Lute.”Olson, who has had health issues in recent years, emphasized basketball basics. Each practice began with a series of chest passes. Players worked on their weak hands. The Warriors, who warm up by launching half-court heaves, are slightly less regimented.“If Coach Olson walked in and saw some of this, he’d be shaking his head,” Fraser said. “He’d think we’re so loose.”The Warriors are still mindful of the essentials, though, especially at training camp, where they dribble around traffic cones and throw passes at pitch-back nets configured with targets. If they channel the Harlem Globetrotters, their flamboyance is rooted in bedrock principles.“And I think you could tie a lot of that back to Coach Olson and Arizona,” Fraser said.Kerr played for several legendary N.B.A. coaches — Phil Jackson, Gregg Popovich, Lenny Wilkens, Cotton Fitzsimmons — and he took pieces from each as he developed his own style. Jerry Marvin, his former coach at Palisades High School in Los Angeles, made a big impression, too. But these were coaches with unique approaches.“I think the common thread is their force of personality,” Kerr said. “They all saw the game a little differently and ran different stuff, basing a lot of it on their personnel. But it’s not what made them great coaches. It was having great talent, and then developing a great culture and system so that their talent could flourish.”Olson, for example, adapted to the strengths of his roster. He became more guard-oriented over the years, especially after he recruited high-profile players like Damon Stoudamire, Khalid Reeves and Gilbert Arenas. (Kerr noted how he had been one of the “slow guys in the backcourt” when Olson was just starting out at Arizona.)But Olson was not necessarily trying to outwit anyone by being especially innovative. Basketball, Kerr said, is not like football, where a mastermind like Bill Belichick can lean on his tactical genius to mold the New England Patriots into the most dominant N.F.L. team of his era.“Football is so strategic,” Kerr said. “But in basketball, there aren’t many guys I can think of historically who are the best coaches on earth who were just offensive wizards or defensive wizards. It was more about the culture they built and the way their teams played together — not a style or a system.”It has become a hackneyed concept in sports, as if teams can just crack the code on demand, but Olson was all about culture, his former players say. Jason Terry, a retired N.B.A. guard who played at Arizona from 1995 to 1999, recalled his recruitment. He was not a shy young man, but Olson, at that point firmly established as one of the game’s top coaches, had the sort of gravitas that intimidated him.On the second day of Terry’s official visit to Arizona, Olson and his wife, Bobbi, had him over for pancakes.“These unbelievable pancakes,” Terry, an analyst for Turner Sports, said in a telephone interview. “That was a big part of the recruitment. But I also remember that he kind of came over and put his big paw on my shoulder, and I jumped. He was like, ‘Nothing to be scared of young fella. It’s great to have you in my home.’ And from that point on, you were just at ease.”Olson, Terry said, was the first coach he had who never used profanity. Olson would glare. His face would go red. And those big paws would shake.“But he would never yell,” Terry said. “He would just say your name over and over and over.”Above all, Olson imbued his players with the sense that they were a part of something larger than themselves. Before the national championship game in 1997, two prominent alumni — Kerr and Sean Elliott, both of whom had graduated to the N.B.A. — boarded the team bus. Olson had invited them to address his players, and their message was simple: Do it for all of us who have come before you but could never quite get the job done.Terry saw that Olson had tears in his eyes. Arizona went on to win its first national title by defeating Kentucky in overtime.“We knew that we couldn’t let him down,” Terry said.With the Warriors, Kerr definitely swears on occasion. (Ask Draymond Green.) And the N.B.A. is not college basketball. But Kerr still tries to foster an atmosphere that is more about the collective whole than about its supremely talented parts. Kerr loathes isolation sets. He celebrates ball movement. And he stages team dinners on road trips, where family members are welcome.As for the Pac-12, these are rough days. Arizona, under Coach Sean Miller, has been entwined in a corruption scandal, and the conference could send just one team to the N.C.A.A. tournament. Iguodala described the Pac-12 as garbage (he used a more colorful word), though he expressed hope moving forward. Kerr was more diplomatic.“It’s been a dry spell,” he said. “And I really don’t know the answer.”In fact, the Pac-12 has not won a national championship since Kerr boarded the Arizona team bus back in 1997 and delivered his pregame pep talk. But in his own way, as the Warriors chase another title, he is still carrying the mantle for the conference and his old coach.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byIn her wordsThe U.S. women’s soccer team has filed a gender discrimination lawsuit. The players are the latest athletes to demand equal treatment. By Maya SalamYou’re reading In Her Words, where women rule the headlines. Sign up here to get it delivered to your inbox. Let me know what you think at dearmaya@nytimes.com.“Everyone thinks women should be thrilled when we get crumbs, and I want women to have the cake, the icing and the cherry on top, too.”— Billie Jean King, a tennis legend who led the charge for pay equality in her sportLast week, all 28 players on the U.S. women’s national soccer team — the greatest women’s soccer team in the world — filed a gender discrimination lawsuit against the United States Soccer Federation, another move in its long-running battle for equality.The athletes — including the stars Alex Morgan, Megan Rapinoe and Carli Lloyd — are not just taking issue with their paychecks but also with where they play, how they travel to matches, and the medical treatment and coaching they receive, in what they called “institutionalized gender discrimination,” as my colleague Andy Das reported.“We’ve always, dating back to forever, been a team that stood up for itself and fought hard for what it felt it deserved and tried to leave the game in a better place,” Rapinoe told The New York Times on Friday.The women’s team holds a record three World Cup championships and four Olympic gold medals.[READ MORE: U.S. Women’s Soccer Team Sues U.S. Soccer for Gender Discrimination]The issue of pay inequality in sports is of course not just soccer’s problem. Women across all sports are paid less, and many have fought for equity in salary and in prize money. Here are other cases where pay inequality has been stark, compelling female athletes to speak out.The U.S. Open. After long-fought battles by champions like Billie Jean King, Chris Evert, Martina Navratilova, and Venus and Serena Williams, tennis has seen the most progress when it comes to pay equity.  The first real appeal was made in 1970 by King, after a tournament in Italy for which she was paid just $600 for taking the women’s title. The men’s winner was awarded $3,500. King would later make this statement: “Everyone thinks women should be thrilled when we get crumbs, and I want women to have the cake, the icing and the cherry on top, too.”In 1973, King threatened to sit out the U.S. Open unless the prize money was made equal. It worked. That year, the men’s and women’s champions were paid equally, and the U.S. Open has paid its winners equally since. Other Grand Slams, though, were slow to follow suit.[READ MORE: Eight Times Women in Sports Fought for Equality]The Australian Open, and other Grand Slams. Prize money for the Australian Open had fluctuated for decades: In 1978, the men’s winner was paid about 585 percent more than the women’s, ESPN reported last year. And in the mid-1980s, the women’s winner was paid slightly more. By the mid-1990s, men were again paid more, prompting officials in the Women's Tennis Association to push hard for equal pay. In 2001, the Australian Open agreed, and winners have been compensated equally since. The French Open came around in 2006, and then Wimbledon in 2007, a change led by Venus Williams. Williams made a failed plea to Wimbledon’s governing body the night before she took the title in 2005. And in 2006, she wrote an op-ed in The Times of London titled “Wimbledon Has Sent Me a Message: I’m Only a Second Class Champion.” In 2007, she was awarded $1.4 million for her victory, the same as the men’s champion, Roger Federer. More recently, Novak Djokovic, currently the No. 1 men’s player in the world, suggested men deserve more money. “The stats are showing that we have much more spectators on the men’s tennis matches,” he said in 2016. “I think that’s one of the reasons why maybe we should get awarded more.”The W.N.B.A. When compared with the N.B.A., athletes in the W.N.B.A. face extreme pay disparities — though, as is often pointed out, the N.B.A. is a multibillion dollar industry, while the W.N.B.A. is not. Nonetheless, in 2018, the W.N.B.A. set an individual salary cap of $117,500, and rookies earned a minimum of about $50,000. The minimum starting salary for N.B.A. players is about $580,000.Last summer, A’ja Wilson, a star rookie who was the No. 1 overall W.N.B.A. draft pick in 2018, commented on LeBron James’s $154 million contract with the Los Angeles Lakers. “Must be nice. We over here looking for an M but Lord, let me get back in my lane,” she tweeted. Wilson earned about $53,000 that season. The top N.B.A. draft pick last year, Deandre Ayton, is expected to earn $6.8 million in his first year.U.S.A. Hockey. In March 2017, the women’s national hockey team announced that it would boycott the coming world championship if U.S.A. Hockey did not increase the women’s wages. The risk paid off. Within days, the team and U.S.A. Hockey reached a four-year deal that gave the female players a $2,000 training stipend each month from the United States Olympic Committee and larger bonuses for winning medals. “We want to do the fair thing, and the right thing — not just for hockey but for all women,” Meghan Duggan, the team’s captain, said at the time.Sign up here to get In Her Words delivered to your inbox!______Here are five articles from The Times you might have missed.“My passion has been taken away.” A midwife who has delivered hundreds of babies for Mennonite women is facing felony charges for practicing without the proper license. The women are speaking publicly in her defense. [Read the story] “Black audiences are what I’ve considered my base, and I will always make movies for that base.” The actress Regina Hall talks about the two Hollywoods, spirituality and success. [Read the story]“Even Google can no longer hide its gender pay gap.” A new federal rule will force big companies to report pay scales according to gender and race. [Read the story]“I didn’t mean to be brave.” When her husband was arrested on child pornography charges, Maddie Corman’s world fell apart. Then she made a play about it. [Read the story]“It will be good not to be a black spot on the map any longer.” Mario Batali exits his restaurants a year after reports that he sexually assaulted and harassed women. [Read the story]______For Women’s History Month, we’re highlighting stories of trailblazing women you may not know, but should. We’ll bring you two women each week in this newsletter; head over to our Instagram for daily posts.In 1995, Alison Hargreaves became the first woman to conquer Mount Everest alone, without bottled oxygen or the help of Sherpas. When she reached the peak, she sent a radio message to her son and daughter: “To Tom and Kate, my dear children, I am on the highest point of the world, and I love you dearly.” Her homeland, Britain, rejoiced. But the excitement did not last long. Three months later, Hargreaves, 33, died descending from the summit of K2 in Pakistan. Read more about Alison Hargreaves here.Sign up here to get future installments of In Her Words delivered to your inbox. Read past articles here. Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaNEW ORLEANS — The New Orleans Pelicans have scuffled along for years as one of the N.B.A.’s worker-bee franchises, a respectable team but not one that has vied for championships. They lose as often as they win and play their home games in an arena called the Smoothie King Center, where a big-beaked mascot named Pierre roams the crowd.But in recent seasons, the team has employed someone even more special: Anthony Davis, a gifted center and one of the best players in the league. Davis has a pterodactyl-length wingspan and a unibrow, which has become as much a part of his persona as his skyscraping dunks. Fans know him as “The Brow,” as if he were a superhero who draws strength from his facial hair.New Orleans used to love him for it — until two weeks ago, when he shook the league and asked the Pelicans to trade him. The Pelicans, in return, made a bold move of their own: They refused to let him go, at least not yet.Now Davis and New Orleans are stuck together in basketball purgatory — “It definitely is different,” said Jrue Holiday, the team’s starting point guard — and the city’s long-suffering sports fans can only wonder: What do we do now?“It’s not a new thing that guys demand to be traded,” Alvin Gentry, the Pelicans coach, said in an interview, “but I thought the timing of it kind of put everybody in a tough situation.”It has been a soul-crushing few weeks for sports fans here. They absorbed a major blow last month when the New Orleans Saints, who are as much a tent revival as football team, lost to the Los Angeles Rams in the N.F.L. playoffs after a missed call by the referees, which may have cost the Saints a trip to the Super Bowl.A week later, Davis’s agent, Rich Paul, announced publicly that Davis wanted out of New Orleans and would not sign a contract extension.“Now that he’s going to leave, I’m excited to see what we can get for him,” said Ryan Bergeron, a 22-year-old legal assistant from New Orleans who is a regular at Pelicans games. Like many fans, Bergeron owns one of Davis’s replica jerseys — which he plans to keep in the back of his closet.“I think we’ll be better off without him,” Bergeron said.Not so long ago, Davis was throwing beads from a float as an honorary grand marshal at a Mardi Gras parade. But the city’s feelings toward him have curdled like week-old étouffée.On Friday night, when Davis played in his first home game for the Pelicans since his trade request, images of him were cut from a highlight package that played on the arena’s oversize video screens. The crowd showered him with boos that drowned out scattered cheers. As if to amplify his value while sticking it to those who expressed their displeasure, Davis collected 32 points and 9 rebounds.“It’s life, man,” Davis said of his frosty reception. “Some people aren’t going to like you.”New Orleans has dealt with its share of hardwood hardship. Franchises have come and gone, along with star players. The New Orleans Buccaneers were a charter member of the American Basketball Association from 1967 to 1970, but then relocated to Memphis. The New Orleans Jazz, founded as an N.B.A. expansion franchise in 1974, had a similarly abbreviated run before decamping for Utah in 1979.The N.B.A. returned to New Orleans in 2002 — back when the team was known as the Hornets — and eventually found a franchise star in point guard Chris Paul, who led the team to three playoff appearances before he, too, told management before the start of the 2011-12 season that he would not sign a contract extension. New Orleans traded him to the Los Angeles Clippers, then finished with the worst record in the Western Conference.But from the rubble of player discontent sprang fresh life in 2012: Tom Benson, then the owner of the Saints, bought the franchise, and the team, soon to be rebranded as the Pelicans, secured the top pick in the draft. (After Benson died last year, the ownership of both franchises was transferred to his wife, Gayle.) New Orleans used that pick on Davis, a freshman center who had just led Kentucky to an N.C.A.A. championship.Now in his seventh season, Davis is a six-time All-Star who was averaging 29 points and 13.3 rebounds entering Monday. But he has been prone to injury, and he has never led the Pelicans on a deep playoff run. The organization has made missteps — Exhibit A: re-signing Omer Asik, a Turkish forward, to a $58 million deal in 2015 — but that does not make them unique among N.B.A. teams; they are trying to compete in one of the league’s smallest markets when stars are generally gravitating toward flashier and more well-established franchises.Last season, the Pelicans were playing well behind Davis and DeMarcus Cousins, a perennial All-Star whom the team had acquired through a trade in 2017. But Cousins tore his Achilles’ tendon and missed the playoffs. Without him, the Pelicans still swept the Portland Trail Blazers in their first-round series before losing to the Golden State Warriors in the conference semifinals.Still another problem was brewing for the Pelicans. In September, Davis changed agents and hired Paul, who is known for his close relationship with LeBron James, the Los Angeles Lakers’ star forward.Paul’s tactics with the Pelicans in recent weeks in pursuit of a trade for Davis were unconventional. Tom Penn, a former executive with the Trail Blazers and an analyst for NBA TV, said in a telephone interview that most agents try to work with team executives behind the scenes. Paul, on the other hand, “threw a Molotov cocktail in the middle of the room,” Penn said.It became a public spectacle, and the Pelicans responded by releasing a statement in which they said they would do a deal “on our own terms and our own timeline.” Sure enough, they rebuffed the Lakers — one of Davis’s preferred trade destinations — in their attempts to pry Davis loose.Once Thursday’s trade deadline passed, the Pelicans landed a final jab by tweeting an emoji of an hourglass that had run out.Aside from avoiding the public-relations pitfalls of being stuck with a star who no longer wants to be there, the Pelicans had little incentive to make a deal ahead of the trade deadline. More teams will be better positioned to make offers for Davis in the off-season, and the Pelicans’ haul in exchange for him could be huge.New Orleans also showed some pluck. At a time when some players are seizing greater power to determine the arc of their careers, the Pelicans decided that they would trade Davis when they are ready.Now, with Davis tethered to them for the remainder of the season — he is a lottery ticket they will wait to cash — the Pelicans are searching for a way forward.“What we’re trying to do is get back to normal,” said Gentry, the team’s coach, “and what our new normal is — we haven’t quite figured it out yet.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellWEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — I walked into the spring training locker room of the Houston Astros with a question for the assembled players. What is going on with the slow pace of free-agent contracts this winter?Alex Bregman, the Astros’ star third baseman, had just finished taking his morning hacks on the field and is likely to be a future occupant of baseball’s penthouse. He could earn a munificent contract of the sort handed out to Bryce Harper ($330 million) and Manny Machado ($300 million) these past two weeks. But he sees many dozens of ballplayers who have fallen short of stardom without contracts, and that angers him.Worse, he sees teams content with mediocrity: Fewer clubs are competing to sign the stars. “A lot of teams seem fine with losing and getting TV money and making no attempt to sign players,” he said. “That is bad for the game.”I wandered over to Josh Reddick’s locker. Lithe and a free spirit, he’s a good right fielder and a careful observer of the game. He suggested that perhaps baseball players should follow the lead of N.B.A. players and speak out.“A lot of guys are pissed off,” he said. “There are a lot of guys who should have jobs who are just hanging there. If it takes another bad strike to change this, then that’s what we need to do.”We have arrived at a hinge point in sports. From angry baseball players talking strike to quarterback Colin Kaepernick to running back Le’Veon Bell to the N.B.A. players LeBron James, Stephen Curry and Chris Paul, professional athletes are splendidly outspoken. They opine on President Trump and popular culture and their sport’s economics, and it is indisputably stirring to see young men and women looking beyond the horizon of wins and losses.Yet politicization plays out in radically different ways and not invariably to the benefit of athletes. Baseball grooves on and is constrained by its traditions. It has a powerful union, the strongest in pro sports, and that coexists with the sense that individuality is suspect and no player is as big as the sport itself.So baseball players sail toward a possible confrontation with the owners without leaders who possess the transcendent cultural cachet and business power of, say, a LeBron James.“It feels like baseball lives in the past, and that undercuts player power,” noted Adrian Burgos, a history professor at the University of Illinois and editor of La Vida Baseball, which studies the Latino influence on baseball. “Whereas the N.B.A. imagines itself as the future, and it has to create a world in which players have more power.”The N.B.A., players in many sports will tell you, stands as the zeitgeist prototype, the most free-spirited of the leagues and with the youngest fan base — the average age of an N.B.A. viewer is 37, compared with 55 in baseball. Its stars have become hybrids: players, power brokers and globe-spanning businessmen. So James, who signed with the Los Angeles Lakers with an eye toward building an entertainment empire, spent much of February trying to force the New Orleans Pelicans to trade its star center, Anthony Davis, to the Lakers.James’s heist failed amid complaints he had stepped out of his player’s lane and tampered with another team’s star. Suffice to say James did not appear chastened and Davis could try to force a trade this summer. James has a television show, “The Shop,” on HBO, and guess who was one of his scheduled guests on the Season 2 premiere on Friday night?Yes, the same A. Davis.The N.B.A. life is nothing if not an intersectional experience.Baseball and football are more tightly bound by their cultures and history. The N.F.L. long ago went all in on Death Star dominance, sated on money and nose wrinkled in distaste for dissent. The owners cut a presumably very large check to Kaepernick, who almost certainly was blackballed for taking a dignified knee during the national anthem. There is no assurance he will again run out onto an N.F.L. field.Player solidarity in football is a barely flickering lamp. When Bell refused to report to the Steelers’ training camp last fall, The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported that teammates removed his name plate and plundered his locker of shoes. Bell decided to sit out the 2018 season rather than accept a constraining franchise-tag deal.“The N.F.L. has capitalized in post-9/11 patriotism and the sense that its shield is bigger than players, and that infects the sport,” David Leonard, a professor who teaches about the intersection of race, culture and sport at Washington State, Pullman, said.The N.B.A. is the antithesis of this. Player and even coaching personas — see Steve Kerr and Gregg Popovich’s scathing takes on Trump — have become central to its marketing appeal, a Twitter, WhatsApp, Instagrammed world of hooping and opining. Adam Silver, the commissioner of the N.B.A., may not groove on athletes’ desire to bend teams to their will, but that is woven into the league’s DNA.Bill Russell, the 85-year-old basketball legend who took a photo of himself wearing a T-shirt with the words, “I’m with Kap,” and tweeted it out, serves as a reminder, too, that its athletes have been outspoken for generations.“N.B.A. players are taking a role in their own marketing and their own futures,” Leonard said. “You see a concerted effort not only to wield power but to create power.”This has not escaped the notice of baseball players. In their world, too much individuality, wearing a hat backward or tossing a bat like a baton after a home run, can draw a roll of eyes.Reddick, the Astros’ right fielder, has watched N.B.A. players with admiration. “Basketball players are very outspoken about their opinions,” he said. “Baseball has always been about giving the generic cliché answer that keeps you guessing. Basketball players are much more outspoken and go into it with a lot of depth.”Analytics border on Holy Writ in baseball front offices and for many sportswriters, and this too acts to strangely diminish stars even in their moment of glory. So we’re told that Harper, an intense and seemingly transcendent young star, is less than he appears because his WAR rating last year (wins above replacement and a rather subjective statistic) was low. There is the implicit suggestion that players and fans would do well to yield to numeracy triumphalism.That insistence acts as oil poured on the bonfire of player discontent. Stars to the side, more than 70 major leaguers remain without contracts, and rank-and-file sorts have signed minor league contracts in hopes they might clamber onto a major league roster with a good spring. The players note — how to say this sweetly? — the coincidence that team computer programs seem to kick out contract offers that occupy the same narrow bandwidth.In the 1980s, such coincidence went by the name of collusion; today, it’s apparently just artificial intelligence doing what it does.Zack Britton, a fine relief pitcher, signed a three-year, $39 million contract this winter with the Yankees, and counted himself lucky. “These clubs are all controlled by Major League Baseball,” he said. “And they are submitting almost the same offers, which is kind of weird, right?”Reddick has walked this modern baseball world. He played four years for the Oakland Athletics and loved his manager and the bleacher bums with whom he partied and the Bay Area. When he reached free agency and wanted his compensation, well: Hasta la vista, baby.The Athletics pull off this tightwad act with exceedingly bright management, but it is an exception.“Unless you’re a die-hard fan and you’ve got a date or you just want to get hammered on $9 beers, it’s hard to see why you’d keep going to the games of some teams,” Reddick said. “It’s a bummer because you are supposed to want to win games.”The union-management agreement expires in two years. In this age of the outspoken athlete, the center may no longer hold. “In 2021,” Reddick predicted, “a lot of stuff could hit the fan.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellWEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — I walked into the spring training locker room of the Houston Astros with a question for the assembled players. What is going on with the slow pace of free-agent contracts this winter?Alex Bregman, the Astros’ star third baseman, had just finished taking his morning hacks on the field and is likely to be a future occupant of baseball’s penthouse. He could earn a munificent contract of the sort handed out to Bryce Harper ($330 million) and Manny Machado ($300 million) these past two weeks. But he sees many dozens of ballplayers who have fallen short of stardom without contracts, and that angers him.Worse, he sees teams content with mediocrity: Fewer clubs are competing to sign the stars. “A lot of teams seem fine with losing and getting TV money and making no attempt to sign players,” he said. “That is bad for the game.”I wandered over to Josh Reddick’s locker. Lithe and a free spirit, he’s a good right fielder and a careful observer of the game. He suggested that perhaps baseball players should follow the lead of N.B.A. players and speak out.“A lot of guys are pissed off,” he said. “There are a lot of guys who should have jobs who are just hanging there. If it takes another bad strike to change this, then that’s what we need to do.”We have arrived at a hinge point in sports. From angry baseball players talking strike to quarterback Colin Kaepernick to running back Le’Veon Bell to the N.B.A. players LeBron James, Stephen Curry and Chris Paul, professional athletes are splendidly outspoken. They opine on President Trump and popular culture and their sport’s economics, and it is indisputably stirring to see young men and women looking beyond the horizon of wins and losses.Yet politicization plays out in radically different ways and not invariably to the benefit of athletes. Baseball grooves on and is constrained by its traditions. It has a powerful union, the strongest in pro sports, and that coexists with the sense that individuality is suspect and no player is as big as the sport itself.So baseball players sail toward a possible confrontation with the owners without leaders who possess the transcendent cultural cachet and business power of, say, a LeBron James.“It feels like baseball lives in the past, and that undercuts player power,” noted Adrian Burgos, a history professor at the University of Illinois and editor of La Vida Baseball, which studies the Latino influence on baseball. “Whereas the N.B.A. imagines itself as the future, and it has to create a world in which players have more power.”The N.B.A., players in many sports will tell you, stands as the zeitgeist prototype, the most free-spirited of the leagues and with the youngest fan base — the average age of an N.B.A. viewer is 37, compared with 55 in baseball. Its stars have become hybrids: players, power brokers and globe-spanning businessmen. So James, who signed with the Los Angeles Lakers with an eye toward building an entertainment empire, spent much of February trying to force the New Orleans Pelicans to trade its star center, Anthony Davis, to the Lakers.James’s heist failed amid complaints he had stepped out of his player’s lane and tampered with another team’s star. Suffice to say James did not appear chastened and Davis could try to force a trade this summer. James has a television show, “The Shop,” on HBO, and guess who was one of his scheduled guests on the Season 2 premiere on Friday night?Yes, the same A. Davis.The N.B.A. life is nothing if not an intersectional experience.Baseball and football are more tightly bound by their cultures and history. The N.F.L. long ago went all in on Death Star dominance, sated on money and nose wrinkled in distaste for dissent. The owners cut a presumably very large check to Kaepernick, who almost certainly was blackballed for taking a dignified knee during the national anthem. There is no assurance he will again run out onto an N.F.L. field.Player solidarity in football is a barely flickering lamp. When Bell refused to report to the Steelers’ training camp last fall, The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported that teammates removed his name plate and plundered his locker of shoes. Bell decided to sit out the 2018 season rather than accept a constraining franchise-tag deal.“The N.F.L. has capitalized in post-9/11 patriotism and the sense that its shield is bigger than players, and that infects the sport,” David Leonard, a professor who teaches about the intersection of race, culture and sport at Washington State, Pullman, said.The N.B.A. is the antithesis of this. Player and even coaching personas — see Steve Kerr and Gregg Popovich’s scathing takes on Trump — have become central to its marketing appeal, a Twitter, WhatsApp, Instagrammed world of hooping and opining. Adam Silver, the commissioner of the N.B.A., may not groove on athletes’ desire to bend teams to their will, but that is woven into the league’s DNA.Bill Russell, the 85-year-old basketball legend who took a photo of himself wearing a T-shirt with the words, “I’m with Kap,” and tweeted it out, serves as a reminder, too, that its athletes have been outspoken for generations.“N.B.A. players are taking a role in their own marketing and their own futures,” Leonard said. “You see a concerted effort not only to wield power but to create power.”This has not escaped the notice of baseball players. In their world, too much individuality, wearing a hat backward or tossing a bat like a baton after a home run, can draw a roll of eyes.Reddick, the Astros’ right fielder, has watched N.B.A. players with admiration. “Basketball players are very outspoken about their opinions,” he said. “Baseball has always been about giving the generic cliché answer that keeps you guessing. Basketball players are much more outspoken and go into it with a lot of depth.”Analytics border on Holy Writ in baseball front offices and for many sportswriters, and this too acts to strangely diminish stars even in their moment of glory. So we’re told that Harper, an intense and seemingly transcendent young star, is less than he appears because his WAR rating last year (wins above replacement and a rather subjective statistic) was low. There is the implicit suggestion that players and fans would do well to yield to numeracy triumphalism.That insistence acts as oil poured on the bonfire of player discontent. Stars to the side, more than 70 major leaguers remain without contracts, and rank-and-file sorts have signed minor league contracts in hopes they might clamber onto a major league roster with a good spring. The players note — how to say this sweetly? — the coincidence that team computer programs seem to kick out contract offers that occupy the same narrow bandwidth.In the 1980s, such coincidence went by the name of collusion; today, it’s apparently just artificial intelligence doing what it does.Zack Britton, a fine relief pitcher, signed a three-year, $39 million contract this winter with the Yankees, and counted himself lucky. “These clubs are all controlled by Major League Baseball,” he said. “And they are submitting almost the same offers, which is kind of weird, right?”Reddick has walked this modern baseball world. He played four years for the Oakland Athletics and loved his manager and the bleacher bums with whom he partied and the Bay Area. When he reached free agency and wanted his compensation, well: Hasta la vista, baby.The Athletics pull off this tightwad act with exceedingly bright management, but it is an exception.“Unless you’re a die-hard fan and you’ve got a date or you just want to get hammered on $9 beers, it’s hard to see why you’d keep going to the games of some teams,” Reddick said. “It’s a bummer because you are supposed to want to win games.”The union-management agreement expires in two years. In this age of the outspoken athlete, the center may no longer hold. “In 2021,” Reddick predicted, “a lot of stuff could hit the fan.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Harvey AratonIf ever there has been an N.B.A. team that was entitled to tank, to deliberately lose for the mathematical calculation of draft lottery luck, it was this season’s Brooklyn Nets as they were on the night of Dec. 5.The latest in a series of harrowing defeats had left them with an 8-18 record, their best-performing player (Caris LeVert) down with a dislocated foot and little reason to believe there was much to strive for until the annual springtime game show known as the draft lottery.For a franchise that had disgorged its most recent lottery picks like T-shirts shot into a crowd, tanking for a high draft pick in an all-out pursuit of Zion Williamson, the supposed one-and-done savior from Duke, seemed like the classic contemporary N.B.A. percentage play.But the Nets, long a franchise nearly impossible to figure, instead won 20 of their next 26 games to become a prime contender for the Adam Silver Integrity Award, if the league’s commissioner, an avowed tsk-tsker on tanking, ever inaugurates it.On my way to Boston recently for an overnight road trip with my son to watch the Nets play the Celtics, I reached Sean Marks, the Nets’ general manager, by phone — on a scouting trip in Slovenia. First question: How the heck did you convince your team, at 8-18, that the remainder of the season would not be a countdown to a 14 percent lottery prayer for the No. 1 pick?“I will tell you that we never had to sit down and say, Hey, guys, we’re going to keep playing hard,” Marks said — “we” meaning he and Coach Kenny Atkinson. “That was player-led, strictly character-driven.”It has been a wishful return on assembling a roster of lower draft picks and reclamation projects, players with “chips on their shoulders,” in the general absence of lottery blue chips.“The never-ending odyssey in this business,” Marks said, “is doing your homework and betting on people, their will and their drive.”Marks is a 43-year-old New Zealander, drafted in 1998 by the Knicks out of the University of California, Berkeley, and traded the next day with good company, Charles Oakley, to Toronto for Marcus Camby. A 6-foot-10 frontcourt reserve, he survived with modest N.B.A. skills for roughly a decade, which explains much of what has happened since his retirement as a player in 2011.“There probably are very few people who had careers as long as Sean had while getting as few minutes, and there’s a good reason for that,” said R.C. Buford, the San Antonio Spurs’ general manager, for whom Marks played for two seasons and apprenticed as an assistant coach and front office executive.“In every role he’s had, he’s been a culture builder,” Buford said.Around the N.B.A., that word — culture — has become like a convenient catchphrase, an opening statement for best intentions.“People use it all the time — they’re going to work hard, play defense, play for the team — but how many actually do?” said P.J. Carlesimo, whose N.B.A. stops in coaching and broadcasting have included San Antonio and Brooklyn. “Because of his time with the Spurs, Sean knows what a good locker room is like.”For contrast, take the Knicks. Their new management team also talks up culture creation, but their stylistic approach in Coach David Fizdale’s first season has been archetypal Y.M.C.A. choose-up. The Knicks’ front office claims operational independence from the team owner, James L. Dolan, but can’t even call an informal news conference without tailoring the guest list to his petty grievances.In San Antonio, where the Holt family has without question left the basketball people alone, Marks was told in no uncertain terms that he could well be a bridge to a future without Gregg Popovich, the 70-year-old head coach and team president.But the blank slate in Brooklyn — where ownership is a largely absentee and ambiguously directed partnership between Mikhail Prokhorov and Joseph Tsai — presented a clean-slate challenge that was more intriguing than daunting.“We knew there were going to be some dark days,” Marks said. “But we all gave up good jobs because we thought we had a chance to build something special.”Before a culture, first came a core. With a flurry of moves deftly manipulating salary cap space, Marks dealt his way into the lower echelons of the draft and emerged with LeVert, a versatile guard, and Jarrett Allen, a mobile, defensive-minded center.Through a trade with the Los Angeles Lakers, he reeled in point guard D’Angelo Russell, the No. 2 pick in the 2015 draft who was recently named an Eastern Conference All-Star. Spencer Dinwiddie, a mercurial guard, parlayed a lifeline from the N.B.A.’s developmental league in December 2016 into a $34 million extension two years later.These Nets had climbed to four games over .500 before hitting a recent rut. A hand injury to Dinwiddie hurt a roster already thinned by the loss of LeVert, who could return soon, and Allen Crabbe.Without marquee talent, the season can be interminably long, winding and bruising. Even in the East, the less forbidding of the two conferences, remaining in playoff position for the Nets will require a collective stamina they may not yet have.If they do qualify, Marks could be a candidate for executive of the year for stocking his roster with hope, against the odds. Is there a more difficult projection in team sports drafting than being outside N.B.A. lottery position?“It’s very different than the other sports,” Buford said. “Even in the top 10 picks, only about 80 percent will find their way into a rotation.”The Spurs’ foundation and selfless identity were built with David Robinson and Tim Duncan, both No. 1 overall picks and special people. But winning five championships requires much more than a hub. Most famously with Manu Ginobili (late second round) and Tony Parker (late first), the Spurs set a standard for locating unheralded gems, particularly from abroad.In the other talent-acquisition game of big-ticket free agency, the Knicks now figure to have two max salary slots next summer after last week’s stunning trade of Kristaps Porzingis to Dallas.As always, they will be selling the sizzle of Manhattan, but if there is a more discerning superstar out there who wants to look deeper, he could begin at the 8-minute 42-second mark of the fourth quarter of the Nets game in Boston on Jan. 28.Atkinson’s team was trailing by only 7 points when he yanked Russell, who had already scored 25, for the remainder of the night.Deploying one rookie (Theo Pinson) with a handful of N.B.A. games on his résumé and another (Mitch Creek) signed to a 10-day contract, the Nets fought hard in defeat. Russell later admitted that Atkinson had benched him for dubious on-court decisions. At the same time the coach was sending his point guard a message, he was also saving him for a more winnable game the next night at home against Chicago.The Nets prevailed over the Bulls as Russell dropped 30. From the not-so-cheap seats, they looked to have a core and a culture — and a clue.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballThe N.B.A. had its reasons for forcing New Orleans to play its superstar after a trade request, but the risk is not worth the reward.By Marc SteinCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Some of the most memorable scenes from the N.B.A.’s 68th All-Star Game played out away from the ball, both on and adjacent to the bench of the squad captained by LeBron James.Two very deep 3-pointers from Damian Lillard sparked a comeback from 20 points down that had some of the game’s biggest names bounding farther onto the floor in the celebration than the rules would ever allow in a game that counts. And in that same corner of Spectrum Center, another spectacle percolated: Anthony Davis, the disgruntled New Orleans Pelicans superstar, spending the entire second half as a rather forlorn spectator.Those close enough to see it simply couldn’t miss the contrast.Davis tested his freshly tweaked left shoulder in warm-ups, registered 5 points in five minutes and then opted for safety — and what passed for solitude — while a raucous rally unfolded around him. Led by Lillard and the All-Star M.V.P. Kevin Durant, Team LeBron climbed out of that huge hole to record a 178-164 victory over the team captained by Giannis Antetokounmpo. Yet it was a muted end to the league’s annual party weekend for the player whose future has generated more noise than anyone or anything in basketball since September. That’s when Davis hired the Klutch Sports agent Rich Paul — who is also James’s agent and one of the superstar’s closest friends — to precipitate a seemingly ceaseless stream of chatter about Davis winding up alongside James on the Los Angeles Lakers. That might still happen. Even though the league’s annual trade deadline has passed — and even with Davis revealing in a wild interview session Saturday that he is more open to being dealt to the Boston Celtics than had been previously described — no one is prepared to suggest that the Lakers are out of this trade chase.The firmest and smartest declaration to be made at this juncture is that Davis’s reverse layup and swished 3-pointer from the left wing Sunday night should be the last two shots he takes for the rest of the season. It is time for the Pelicans, league officials and Davis’s camp to collectively decide that the wisest move for all parties is to shelve The Brow for New Orleans’ 23 remaining games.Davis has every right, like countless All-Stars before him, to request a trade. The sport’s best have anointed James their muscle-flexing role model and are taking greater control of their futures than ever before. Why shouldn’t they if they have the juice?Once that happens, though, Davis’s team should be able to protect the franchise’s interests above anything else. New Orleans has not been granted that right.It emerged Jan. 28 that Davis, through Paul, informed the Pelicans that he would not be signing the five-year, $240 million contract extension they were planning to offer July 1, and that he wanted to be traded instead. New Orleans spent the ensuing 10 days before the trade deadline fielding offers for Davis — mostly from the overzealous Lakers — but did so knowing all along that the pool of worthy offers would be wider if they waited until June.When the deadline predictably passed on Feb. 7 with no deal, New Orleans was ordered by the N.B.A. to play Davis for the rest of the season — even though a precedent had already been set to give the team full control in similar cases involving Houston’s Carmelo Anthony and Memphis’ Chandler Parsons. Davis has played in four games since, routinely taking the proverbial air out of the Pelicans when he’s been on the court and, in his most recent appearance, injuring his shoulder.The Pelicans don’t want Davis in the lineup because of the gloom his ongoing presence spawns, but also to try to avoid a serious injury that could adversely affect his trade value. The N.B.A.’s position is that they differentiate between true game-changers like Davis and mortal players. It is my position that they absolutely should not.Two of the league’s main justifications in this case, after all, hold that the Pelicans would be willfully hurting the ticket-buying public by holding Davis out — and that the potential benefit New Orleans could realize in terms of improving its draft lottery odds in May violates “league rules governing competitive integrity.” Both ring increasingly hollow.The toxic atmosphere at New Orleans home games — where some customers were spotted last week wearing paper bags over their heads in a scene straight out of the depressing New Orleans ’Aints days of yesteryear — is suddenly such that playing Davis is also an affront to Pelicans fans. They know their face of the franchise no longer wants to be there.Rival teams, meanwhile, can whine all they want about the Pelicans supposedly trying to improve their draft pick in June by sitting Davis now. The truth is any team in New Orleans’ position, resigned to trading Davis and getting as much as possible in return, would want to put him in bubble wrap as quickly as possible.Davis made it clear Sunday night after his quiet cameo that he still wants to play out the season. As much as N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver wants the same, Silver conceded in an interview Sunday with ESPN Radio that the awkward dance resulting from Davis’s trade demand had indeed “become a distraction.”“It’s a very unhealthy situation for the team and, frankly, for Anthony as well,” Silver said.Call that the polite description. The TNT analysts Charles Barkley and Shaquille O’Neal, both of whom navigated their own complicated trade sagas as players, were openly critical of Davis and Paul throughout their All-Star duty.“I think they probably should have done it this summer and done it a little bit more quietly,” O’Neal said in an off-set interview. “Because now Anthony Davis is in a bad position. As a player, you never want the fans to think you don’t care.”Even after Davis hired Paul, I expected a scenario closer to what Shaq outlined. I thought Davis would play the season out to his fullest, inform the Pelicans he would pass on the extension and thus force them to trade him without ever explicitly requesting a trade. That approach seemingly would have meshed better with Davis’s reserved personality. The path he chose instead has made the previously beloved Davis an unlikely villain. That, too, shall pass with time. Paul George, Jimmy Butler and Kawhi Leonard are fellow elite talents who have found themselves labeled similarly over the past 18 months. After Davis is ultimately traded in July, it will eventually be someone else who becomes the N.B.A.’s villain.But July is a ways off. Although there’s no way to gain real distance from the Davis distraction until a trade materializes, Pelicans officials believe it can be tangibly diminished by sending him away for the rest of the season — especially with two of New Orleans’ first four games after the All-Star break coming against LeBron’s Lakers.There were strong signals in Charlotte that the Pelicans — with Danny Ferry now serving as their acting general manager in the wake of Friday’s firing of Dell Demps — intend to re-engage the N.B.A. this week in hopes of convincing league officials to rethink their stance about forcing them to play Davis.The N.B.A. Players Association would presumably get involved if New Orleans is successful, but I’d advise the Pelicans to hold firm. Take any fine that comes. The team has played better, scrappier ball without Davis anyway — and heaven forbid he suffers a serious injury in the regular season’s dog days. As opposed to a mere “dumpster fire,” to borrow New Orleans Coach Alvin Gentry’s term, that would leave both Davis and the Pelicans far worse off than forlorn. That would be the sports version of catastrophic.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah Mervosh and Christina CaronOn Friday, all 28 players on the United States women’s soccer team filed a gender discrimination lawsuit against the United States Soccer Federation, an escalation in their increasingly public battle for equality.The players have said that they play more games than the men’s team — and win more of them — yet still receive less pay. They said “institutionalized gender discrimination” affected not only their paychecks, but also where they played and how often, how they trained, the medical care and coaching they received, and even how they traveled to matches.They are not alone in their fight for fairer pay and better treatment. Here are eight times in recent memory when women fought for equality in sports.Experts claimed for years that distance running was damaging to women’s health and femininity.In 1967, women weren’t allowed to officially enter the Boston Marathon, so Kathrine Switzer entered that year as “K.V. Switzer” to hide her gender.Two miles in, an official tried to eject her from the course, a moment captured in dramatic photographs. She finished anyway, becoming the first woman to complete the race as an official entrant.“We learned that women are not deficient in endurance and stamina, and that running requires no fancy facilities or equipment,” Switzer wrote in The New York Times in 2007.Women were officially allowed to enter the race in 1972. Women’s marathoning joined the Olympics in 1984.The year 1973 was a big one for Billie Jean King, the trailblazing tennis star.She founded the Women’s Tennis Association. She led a movement for female players to earn equal prize money in tournaments that featured players of both sexes.And, on a September night at the Astrodome in Houston, she epitomized her crusade for gender equality when she handily beat Bobby Riggs, a self-described male chauvinist pig, in the Battle of the Sexes.King went on to receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2009 for her work championing the rights of women and gay people. She is considered to be one of the most important athletes of the 20th century.“Everyone thinks women should be thrilled when we get crumbs,” King once said. “I want women to have the cake, the icing and the cherry on top, too.”Chris Ernst is a two-time Olympic rower. But in the spring of 1976, she was the captain of Yale University’s women’s crew team — and sick of not having proper showers to use after practice.She led 18 teammates in an eye-catching protest at Yale’s athletic office. The athletes stripped to their waists, revealing the words “Title IX,” which had been drawn in blue marker on each woman’s back and breasts.The Times ran an article in the next day’s paper, and a photograph of the history-making event also ran in The Yale Daily News.Within two weeks, the female rowers had new locker rooms. And, across the country, educators began viewing Title IX — which had been in effect for just four years — as a law that required compliance.In 2007, after pressure from the tennis great Venus Williams and others, Wimbledon announced that women’s tennis players would receive prize money equal to the men’s.Williams had made a failed plea to Wimbledon’s governing body the night before she won the title in 2005. And in 2006, she wrote an op-ed essay in The Times of London titled “Wimbledon Has Sent Me a Message: I’m Only a Second Class Champion.”“Have you ever been let down by someone that you had long admired, respected and looked up to?” she wrote. “Little in life is more disappointing, particularly when that person does something that goes against the very heart of what you believe is right and fair.”After the policies changed in 2007, she was awarded $1.4 million for her fourth Wimbledon victory, the same amount as the men’s champion, Roger Federer.In March 2017, the women’s national hockey team announced that it would boycott the coming world championship if U.S.A. Hockey, the sport’s national governing body, did not increase the women’s wages.“It’s hard to believe that in 2017, we have to fight so hard just to get equitable support,” Meghan Duggan, the team’s captain, said at the time. “We want to do the fair thing, and the right thing — not just for hockey but for all women.”They put their careers on the line, but the risk paid off.Less than two weeks later, the team reached a four-year deal with U.S.A. Hockey. It provided the female players a $2,000 training stipend each month from the United States Olympic Committee and larger bonuses for winning medals. The team also received the same travel and insurance provisions that the men’s national team did, and a pool of prize money to be split each year.Four prominent female big-wave surfers, Bianca Valenti, Andrea Moller, Keala Kennelly and Paige Alms, spent years fighting for equal pay in the largely male sport where they regularly risk their lives.Last July, the Committee for Equity in Women’s Surfing, an organization formed by six women, sent letters to the California Coastal Commission arguing that by treating women unequally, the World Surf League was in violation of state civil rights law.Months later, in September, Valenti and other female surfers earned a victory when the World Surf League announced it would offer equal prize money to men and women.Valenti, along with Sabrina Brennan, the president of the San Mateo County Harbor Commission, and Karen Tynan, a labor lawyer, also successfully pushed for women to be included in the Maverick’s Challenge, a big-wave surfing competition that had traditionally invited only men.“Some people would tell me that by trying to get the (prize) pie redistributed I was ruining it for everyone,” Moller said in December. “But I would just say: ‘That’s wrong. We’re fighting for the industry. People love watching women surf big waves, so the whole sport will grow.’”In the world of professional basketball, pay disparities are well-documented: In the N.B.A., a multibillion-dollar industry where players often make millions, the minimum starting salary is about eight times what the average W.N.B.A. player makes.And female players are speaking up, on social media and on TV.Skylar Diggins-Smith, the W.N.B.A. All-Star who plays guard for the Dallas Wings, recently appeared in a commercial to raise awareness about pay inequity.The commercial, by the investment adviser Wealthsimple, contrasts the paths of two young players, a boy and a girl. Each lists their basketball dreams and accomplishments, but only one will grow up to receive a multimillion-dollar rookie contract.A’ja Wilson, a star rookie who was the first overall W.N.B.A. draft pick in 2018, has also weighed in: “must. be. nice,” she wrote about LeBron James’s $154 million contract with the Los Angeles Lakers. “We over here looking for a M but Lord, let me get back in my lane.”Wilson earned about $53,000 that season. The top N.B.A. draft pick last year, Deandre Ayton, was expected to earn about $6.8 million in his first year playing for the Phoenix Suns.Ada Hegerberg, a 23-year-old Norwegian, was recognized as the best female soccer player in the world last year when she became the first person to win the women’s Ballon d'Or, a prestigious individual honor in soccer that had previously been reserved for men.Despite the big award, she has decided not to play on the biggest stage of all, the Women’s World Cup, in France this summer.Hegerberg quit the Norwegian national team in 2017 in protest of what she said was a lack of support for women’s soccer in her home country.“I was quite clear with them about what I thought needed to be better,” she said in an interview after winning the Ballon d’Or. “I gave them the reasons. I wish my national team all the best. I love my country. I wish I could play for them. In this case, I had to move on.”Maya Salam and Mihir Zaveri contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Consider the following scenes from the N.B.A.’s annual bacchanal/business convention known as All-Star weekend:Spike Lee standing on a street corner waiting for the crosswalk signal. Stan Kroenke, whose family owns the Denver Nuggets, holding court in a hotel lobby. Joel Embiid, the star center of the Philadelphia 76ers, making small talk with the governor of North Carolina. An army of personal stylists waiting to be summoned by their clients for some of the flashiest events of the year.And then there were the agents and league officials and sneakerheads and reporters, some of whom traveled great distances to make unconventional requests of the weekend’s main attractions.“Shout out to my fans in Mongolia!” John Collins of the Atlanta Hawks yelled into a camera the morning before his appearance in the Saturday slam dunk contest.[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]All-Star weekend tends to be a blend of basketball and branding, business and pleasure — a showcase for a powerful league whose global influence continues to expand.“The whole weekend,” Mike Conley of the Memphis Grizzlies said, “is just a big party.”The All-Star Game itself, scheduled for Sunday night, felt secondary to just about everything else in the host city, as it has for many years. Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets, recalled waiting in line in 2006 for one of the more popular parties at All-Star weekend in Houston, where he watched Maciej Lampe — a center from Poland who appeared in 64 career games over parts of three seasons — bypass the line so that he could immediately be waved inside by security.“And I’m like, ‘Man, I’m behind Maciej Lampe?’” said Morey, who would officially join the front office of the Rockets a little more than six weeks later.All-Star weekend has only grown in recent years. One spreadsheet making the rounds in Charlotte listed more than 100 parties, and that did not include many of the more exclusive events. (Michael Jordan hosted a big one.) Thanks to a change in the league schedule, there is more partying and less deal-making than there used to be.Last year, the league moved the trade deadline up so that it preceded All-Star weekend. In the past, the deadline came a few days after the game, a sequence which helped create its share of absurdity. One of the more notorious examples came in 2017, when word leaked during the fourth quarter of the All-Star Game that the New Orleans Pelicans had struck a deal to acquire DeMarcus Cousins from the Sacramento Kings. Cousins learned of the trade during postgame interviews.The weekend vibe is different now.“It’s so much more fun,” one prominent agent said at a party that he hosted.In the corner, a disc jockey who appeared to be in his 60s spun tunes in a Hawaiian shirt and red-tinted glasses, while women wearing bright red dresses passed out hors d’oeuvres. Agents, clients and marketing honchos milled about the room.But none of this is meant to suggest that deals do not get done.On Thursday night, at a downtown hotel bar where patrons sipped $25 cocktails, a crowd of very tall men gathered as a private event wound down at a nearby steakhouse. Among the luminaries who emerged from the event: Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner; Kroenke, who also owns the Los Angeles Rams; Brian Rolapp, the N.F.L.’s chief media and business officer; Bill Simmons, the founder of The Ringer; Connor Schell, ESPN’s executive vice president for content; and Bob Myers, the general manager of the Golden State Warriors.“There are definitely conversations happening,” Morey said. “And there’s serendipity involved. You’re always bumping into people.”Morey was finishing lunch at an upscale restaurant. Warren LeGarie, a longtime agent to many coaches and executives, and Kiki Vandeweghe, the league’s executive vice president for basketball operations, were dining at nearby tables. Morey was about to head into a meeting with Vandeweghe and Monty McCutchen, who supervises the league’s referees.“Obviously, we care deeply about where the league is going,” Morey said, “so talking to Adam Silver about strategy or Monty McCutchen about changing how they might call certain things — all that kind of stuff could impact our franchise moving forward, so I try to be involved.”The atmosphere may seem more relaxed than it was two years ago, when most team executives and agents were focused on the trade deadline, but the shift in the schedule has not pushed aside the league’s most pressing issues.In Charlotte, a cloud loomed over the festivities, and it came in the shape of a unibrow.Perhaps you have heard? Anthony Davis, the star center for the Pelicans, requested a trade 10 days before the deadline.The Pelicans, though, rejected all trade offers for him and instead hope to reap better players and draft picks in a deal this summer. Last week, Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry called the drama of it all a “dumpster fire.” On Friday, the Pelicans fired their general manager. On Saturday, Davis told reporters that his list of preferred destinations included the Knicks and the Los Angeles Lakers. Hours later, Silver said he would like trade demands and discussions to remain behind closed doors.In any case, the Davis situation only underscored how much the topic of player movement dominates the league — even in the middle of the season, and even after the trade deadline. Everyone here was fixated on what could happen just over four months from now — at the start of free agency.Will Kevin Durant leave the Warriors? Will Kawhi Leonard spurn the Toronto Raptors? Will Kyrie Irving bolt from the Boston Celtics? And, again, what about Davis?“No one likes to see an instance,” Silver said, “where a player is demanding that he be traded when he’s still in the middle of a contractual obligation to a team.”Silver made those remarks, and his wish for private trade discussions, at a news conference before Saturday night’s skills, dunk and 3-point competitions.The media forum, like the carefully coordinated outfits stars wore to events around town, has become part of the event’s routine. So has the roll call of courtside A-listers during the dunk contest; this year’s included the rappers Quavo, 2 Chainz, J. Cole and Gucci Mane.All-Star weekend was not always so structured — or extravagant. Paul Westphal recalled making his first trip to an All-Star Game in 1977 as a guard for the Phoenix Suns. The league hosted a modest dinner. Players received commemorative mugs. Anyone associated with the game stayed at the same hotel in downtown Milwaukee.“It wasn’t like it is now where the game takes over the whole city,” Westphal said.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar missed practice, Westphal said, then showed up about 20 minutes before the start of the game in a fur coat. Westphal helped seal his team’s win with a late steal against Pete Maravich. It was a moment he said he would never forget.This weekend, Westphal was in Charlotte, where he was named a finalist for the Basketball Hall of Fame. He said he was not planning to attend any parties.“Just dinner with friends,” he said.In Charlotte, the streets around the host arena, Spectrum Center, were choked with traffic. Concert fliers hung from every lamppost. And none of the guests, spread among numerous hotels at premium nightly rates, seemed to mind the cold weather as countless lines formed for restaurants, bars and pop-up musical performances.Given all the extracurriculars, it was easy to forget that basketball was the only reason anyone was here in the first place — and perhaps that was because the only legitimate basketball was being played in a college gymnasium a few miles from downtown. A group of elite teenage prospects, without much fanfare, had convened for the league’s annual Basketball Without Borders Global Camp.In all, 63 boys and girls from 31 countries played in front of scouts and executives who hoped to identify the sport’s next batch of stars.“There’s a lot of talent here,” said Brooks Meek, the N.B.A.’s vice president for international basketball operations.The spotlight will find them soon enough.Kevin Draper and Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideThe poet and the point guard have never met. But they see the parallels in their crafts — the push-pull between creativity and pragmatism, between daring and safe.Before this season, Mikko Harvey, an award-winning poet long enamored of the playing style of D’Angelo Russell, wondered if the Nets would ever find a place for their new point guard, whose imaginative play can vacillate between the beautiful and the boneheaded.Do you throw the no-look pass for beauty’s sake when a practical pass would do?Do you write poetry or paint portraits when just about any other career is the more prudent choice?“Rooting for D’Angelo seems like a vote for art and a vote for imagination and a vote for whimsy,” Harvey said. If that’s the case, whimsy is winning. At 22, Russell will play in his first N.B.A. All-Star game on Sunday.Harvey began rooting for Russell when they were at Ohio State five years ago — Harvey as a graduate student, Russell as a freshman for the Buckeyes. Harvey fell in love with the artistry of the point guard’s play.Watching Russell is like seeing a skateboarder midair, soaring through a series of dizzying flips and twists, Harvey said. “You hold your breath wondering whether or not he’s going to land it.”When told of the analogy, Russell nodded. “I can relate,” he said. “It’s risk versus reward. I play freely, almost with an edge taking what the defense gives, but also taking what I want. And that’s either a tough shot that goes in or a tough pass that gets through. It can either be a turnover or an air ball.“There’s a balance. I think that’s where my success has come from, finding that balance this season. But for coaches, it can be hair-pulling, turning it over too many times or trying to make a home run pass or shot too many times.”So far, the risk is paying off. Russell has become the leader of a team that has exceeded expectations. At 30-29, the Nets have surpassed last season’s victory total with less than a third of the regular-season schedule remaining.In his fourth season in the league, Russell his found success by staying true to his inner artist while operating within the Nets system. Through 58 games, he has averaged career highs in points (20.3), assists (6.6), field goal percentage (43.6), 3-point field goal percentage (37.2) and free throw percentage (82.4).“There is a creative gene that he has,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “Artists drive you crazy sometimes because they want to keep expanding, and there has to be a discipline. Sometimes, he gets too creative. His biggest strengths can be a weakness, but his creativity and our structure have become a good marriage. The more I’ve gotten to know him, the more I let him be more creative. Sure, I can get upset at times, but I’m going towards giving that kid more freedom.”Though Russell’s crafty plays have outweighed the knuckleheaded ones this season, there are times when Atkinson wants to pull out fistfuls of hair. In October against New Orleans, with the Nets ahead by a point with 7.5 seconds left, Russell glanced left, knowing Caris LeVert was to his right. His no-look pass sailed far beyond LeVert’s reach and out of bounds, and the Pelicans went on to win.“I wasn’t no-looking just to no-look,” Russell said, adding that he miscalculated the speed of the cut. “But I should have been looking.”More recently against Boston, with the Nets behind by 7, Atkinson sat Russell for the final 8 minutes 42 seconds, even though the point guard had scored 25 points in 24 minutes. After Russell loafed on two rebound attempts and turned the ball over twice, Atkinson pulled him for what he called a “teachable moment.”After the loss, Russell accepted responsibility without complaint, a sign of his growth since coming to the Nets.Russell’s leadership skills now are miles from the immaturity that plagued his rookie season with the Los Angeles Lakers, who drafted him as the second overall pick in 2015. That year, he made a secret recording of his teammate Nick Young admitting to cheating on his fiancée at the time, the rapper Iggy Azalea. The video became public, Young and Azalea broke up, and locker room dysfunction followed. After two seasons, the Lakers traded Russell to the Nets.“D’Angelo is an excellent player,” Magic Johnson, the Lakers’ president, told reporters in 2017 after introducing Russell’s replacement, Lonzo Ball. “He has the talent to be an All-Star. We want to thank him for what he did for us. But what I needed was a leader. I needed somebody also that can make the other players better and also that players want to play with.”Russell has become precisely what Johnson desired: an All-Star, a leader and someone who makes those around him better.“He makes it fun to play because he makes game a lot easier,” forward Joe Harris said. “He’s a cerebral player. If someone doesn’t get a touch, he’s thinking about how to get them in rhythm.”On a recent trip, while the rest of the team was napping on the plane, Atkinson tapped Russell on the shoulder and told him that he had been named an All-Star — Russell would be a reserve, replacing the injured Victor Oladipo. Russell held back tears.“Going into the season, I don’t think anyone, myself included, thought I’d be an All-Star,” Russell said. “I feel like what I’ve been through in the league, I’ve learned when you focus and buy into your craft, all of a sudden you look up and good things happen.”And with the good comes something else: pressure.Like most Nets fans, Harvey, the poet, is thrilled with the team’s success but also filled with other-shoe-drop anxiety. As the Nets inch closer to a playoff spot, what if the trap door opens and they fall closer to the cellar? Or what if Russell regresses?“Even when things are going well, I’m so used to them falling apart,” said Harvey, 26, who previously lived in Brooklyn, where he taught creative writing and worked as an editorial fellow at Poets & Writers Magazine.The poet’s fandom left the confines of his imagination last year when in an interview with a Canadian literary blog, he was asked to describe his secret internet obsession. He confessed: “I watch his games, read think pieces about him on the NetsDaily fan website, keep up with his Instagram, etc. He occasionally appears in my dreams.”If finding a balance between the daring play and the restrained one is what Russell has learned this season, Harvey of course sees a parallel to poetry.“It’s not easy to blend his kind of unpredictable energy into a set system,” Harvey said. “And yet that’s one of the beautiful challenges of artmaking: finding ways to innovate within structure. A poem can be wildly inventive even while following an 18th-century rhyme scheme. His creativity really shines when he has a good system to either fall back on or react against — his imagination has become much more coherent.”Harvey relies on an essay, “The Figure a Poem Makes” by Robert Frost, to describe the creative process. It takes hard work to become a great artist, but it also requires something mysterious and intuitive.“Like a piece of ice on a hot stove, the poem must ride on its own melting,” Frost wrote. “A poem may be worked over once it is in being, but may not be worried into being. Its most precious quality will remain its having run itself and carried away the poet with it. Read it a hundred times: It will forever keep its freshness as a petal keeps its fragrance. It can never lose its sense of a meaning that once unfolded by surprise as it went.”When the words are read to Russell, his eyes grow wide. “I went to Robert Frost Middle School,” said Russell, who is from Louisville, Ky. “That’s fascinating. I like the way he did that. I get it.“Just as far as the mental process goes, when you put words in a poem, you have to think how many outcomes the reader will come up with. Like Robert Frost said, it never gets old, you can read it a hundred times and it keeps its freshness. You can take that over to basketball. Your mind can take your game to so many different levels. It totally relates.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPHOENIX — John MacLeod, the longtime NBA coach who led the Phoenix Suns to the 1976 NBA Finals, has died. He was 81.MacLeod's son, Matt, confirmed his father's death Sunday to The Associated Press. The elder MacLeod fought Alzheimer's disease for more than a decade.MacLeod is the winningest coach in Suns history, going 579-543 in the regular season from 1973-87. He also coached the Dallas Mavericks from 1987-89 and the New York Knicks in 1990-91, finishing his 18-year head coaching career with a 707-657 mark.MacLeod had his most success in Phoenix, capped by the 1975-76 "Sundarella Suns" run to the NBA Finals. The Suns lost to Boston in six games in the finals, with the Celtics' triple-overtime victory in Game 5 at Boston Garden regarded as one of the greatest games ever."His passion for the game was matched only by his endearing personality, humility and class, a man who was loved by everyone that had the pleasure of interacting with him," the Suns said in a statement. "Coach MacLeod was a winner in every sense and will be dearly missed by our entire Phoenix Suns family."His Phoenix teams made nine playoff appearances, also reaching the Western Conference finals in 1979 and 1984. He had a franchise- record 37 playoff victories, and was placed in the Phoenix Suns Ring of Honor in 2012.MacLeod also worked as an assistant with Phoenix, Denver and Golden State, ending his coaching career with the Warriors in 2006. He was a college head coach at Oklahoma from 1967-73 and Notre Dame from 1991-99, with son Matt a member of the Fighting Irish squad in his father's last two seasons. MacLeod starred at Providence High School in Clarksville, Indiana, and in college at Bellarmine.MacLeod also is survived by wife Carol and daughter Kathleen.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherHere’s a fact that is pretty obvious. When the point spread on a game is big, the favorite usually wins.In the 39 N.B.A. games since 2003 with a spread of 18 or higher, the favorite won them all, according to the Teamrankings.com database.It wasn’t quite an 18-point spread when the Golden State Warriors faced the Phoenix Suns on Sunday night, but it was close. Depending on where you gamble, the Warriors were favored by 16 to 17 points. Games in that range are still won by the favorites 97 percent of the time.Few should have been surprised by the big line on Sunday. The Suns are bad, going into the game with a record of 15-52, worse than anyone but the Knicks. And the Warriors are the Warriors. Not only that, but the game was being played at Golden State.The chance of an upset had shrunk from microscopic to infinitesimal at the 2:58 mark of the first quarter when the Warriors led by 16 points. A ho-hum blowout seemed to be in the offing.The Suns won the game.Devin Booker had 37 points and 11 assists in the shocking victory. “We came in, we fought, we were down 16,” forward Kelly Oubre Jr. told The Arizona Republic. “We still fought. We came up with a big win against the best team in the N.B.A.”The Suns are actually on a bit of a roll, having won five of their last seven. Don’t start checking the playoff race though: Those wins came immediately after a franchise-worst 17-game losing streak.And cynical Suns fans don’t have to worry either. The team is still three games away from slipping out of the bottom three, the teams that have an equal chance of nabbing the No. 1 pick in the draft, probably Zion Williamson of Duke.It was the first Suns win over the Warriors since November 2014. That was 18 straight games of futility against Golden State, the longest active losing streak by one team against another.Klay Thompson of the Warriors (10-for-22 for 28 points) had a curious take afterward, pointing a finger at the home fans. “I expect our crowd to be a little more into it,” he said. “At least you could stand up or something when we make a good play, especially at the beginning. We need that energy, especially at this time of year. Its hard to conjure up energy every single night.”The Warriors, who have the third best record in the league but are still the heavy championship favorites, had better get some energy in a hurry. They now go on a four-game road trip with a much tougher lineup of foes, starting with the Houston Rockets and Oklahoma City Thunder. Their top seed in the West — they are currently a game and a half ahead of the Denver Nuggets — could be under threat.The Suns will miss the playoffs for the ninth straight year (the second longest streak after the Kings). But they will always have the night they won as 17-point underdogs. Outright.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe UCLA men's basketball program was unable to land yet another highly regarded candidate for its vacant head coaching position when Tennessee's Rick Barnes elected Monday to remain with the Volunteers.Tennessee athletic director Phillip Fulmer released a statement during Monday night's NCAA men's championship game between Virginia and Texas Tech, saying Barnes decided to stay in Knoxville."One of the nation's most tradition-rich college basketball programs identified what we here at Tennessee already knew -- that Rick Barnes is one the game's elite coaches and a program-changer," Fulmer's statement read, in part. "I'm thrilled that he will remain a part of our Tennessee Athletics family."The Volunteers were 31-6 under Barnes this season, reaching a No. 1 ranking and advancing to the South Regional semifinals, where they were defeated 99-94 by Purdue. Barnes was selected the Naismith Coach of the Year on Sunday.UCLA also had interest in Texas Christian's Jamie Dixon, but the school elected to pursue other options last week after reportedly electing to not pay the $8 million buyout of his contract. It is unclear if UCLA will resume its pursuit of Dixon.The Bruins' program is in need of a head coach after Steve Alford was fired on New Year's Eve. The Bruins started 7-6 under Alford and finished with a 17-16 record, with Murry Bartow taking over on an interim basis. UCLA did not advance to the NCAA Tournament for the second time in four years.Other reported coaching candidates of interest to UCLA include Mick Cronin of Cincinnati, Randy Bennett of Saint Mary's, and former Bruins point guard Earl Watson, who was fired as head coach of the Phoenix Suns three games into the 2017-18 season.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Phoenix Suns officially named James Jones as general manager Thursday, giving him control over all basketball operations for the team.The Suns also added Jeff Bower as senior vice president of basketball operations and retained Trevor Bukstein as assistant general manager. Both will report to Jones, the team said in a statement.Jones, 38, who played 14 seasons in the league and won three NBA championships, had served as Phoenix's VP of basketball operations the last two seasons. He shared GM duties this past season with Bukstein."James has demonstrated a remarkable ability to manage the day-to-day efforts of our front office while developing strong relationships with our players, coaches and those across our organization and league," said Suns managing partner Robert Sarver in a statement."Furthermore, he is instilling the same championship culture and standard that he experienced on multiple occasions as a player. I have the utmost confidence in James as the leader of our basketball operations moving forward, and we are aligned in the ultimate goal of one day bringing an NBA championship to Phoenix."The Suns had been without a full-time general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.Phoenix finished the season with a 19-63 record.Bower, 57, was general manager of the Detroit Pistons from 2014-18. He previously served two terms as GM of the Charlotte/New Orleans Hornets from 2001-03 and 2005-10."I'm thrilled to add an individual with Jeff's experience and basketball acumen to our front office," Jones said. "Jeff brings a wealth of knowledge in every facet of basketball operations, is of high character and well respected in league circles, and has a proven track record of influencing organizational success. His expertise in creating and executing a plan will be invaluable as we build our team moving forward."Bukstein has been an assistant GM with the Suns since 2013.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDirk Nowitzki was mum all season on his future plans but after a rousing performance in the Dallas Mavericks' home finale Tuesday, the star finally announced the decision everyone expected."Wow. I'm a little overwhelmed, as you would think," Nowitzki told the sellout crowd after the Mavericks' 120-109 victory over the Phoenix Suns. "As you guys might expect, this is my last home game."Nowitzki made his much-anticipated retirement announcement after delivering a season-high 30-point performance, with five 3-pointers, against the Suns. The 7-footer scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history (31,540 points) finished the game with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 33 minutes.The 40-year-old Nowitzki, whose playing career will officially end Wednesday night when the Mavs play the San Antonio Spurs, was honored by the appearance of five of his childhood heroes -- Charles Barkley, Larry Bird, Scottie Pippen, Shawn Kemp and fellow German Detlef Schrempf -- for a postgame ceremony that included heartfelt speeches by Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle and owner Mark Cuban."Amazing that my heroes came out here for this game," Nowitzki said. "Thank you guys so much. Love you guys. Grew up watching you and idolizing you guys so this means more than you will ever know."Mark, can't wait to see what you've got for my jersey retirement. I mean, this is a high bar that you set. But as you guys might expect, this is my last home game."Nowitzki's final season didn't actually begin until mid-December thanks to a longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career and averaged 6.6 points in fewer than 15 minutes a game.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted M-V-P! M-V-P! Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2007 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMEMPHIS, Tenn. — Salah Mejri scored a career-high 19 points, including the tying basket in regulation and the first seven points of overtime as the Dallas Mavericks defeated the Memphis Grizzlies 129-127 on Sunday night.Mejri, who had nine rebounds and four blocks, was 7 of 12 from the floor and made a pair of 3-pointers. Trey Burke led the Mavericks with 24 points, 14 in the fourth quarter and overtime. Justin Jackson and Dorian Finney-Smith added 16 points apiece, and Finney-Smith grabbed 12 rebounds.Delon Wright had his second consecutive triple-double with 20 points, 13 rebounds and 12 assists for the Grizzlies. Justin Holiday paced Memphis with a career-high 30 points.Memphis led 112-110 after Ivan Rabb hit one of two free throws with 54.5 seconds left in regulation. After four misses inside by the Mavericks, they pulled even when Mejri scored on a putback with 1.5 seconds remaining.That sent the game to overtime after Memphis couldn't get a shot off before the horn sounded ending regulation.In the extra period, Mejri scored on a pair of dunks and then a 3-pointer to give Dallas an early lead. Memphis tied it but could never go ahead, and the Mavericks made three of four free throws in the final 15 seconds.Wright's 3-point attempt as the horn sounded was short.TIP-INSMavericks: Dirk Nowitzki, who only played in the first half, has appeared in 76 games against the Grizzlies — the most regular-season games against the franchise by any NBA player. He is also second in scoring against the Grizzlies behind Kobe Bryant. . Nowitzki grabbed his 10,000th defensive rebound in the first quarter, becoming the fifth NBA player to reach that milestone. . Dallas rookie Luka Doncic missed his fourth game in the last five with a variety of injuries, most notably a bruised right thigh.Grizzlies: A 3-pointer in the second quarter set a franchise record for 3s in a season with 768. The previous mark of 767 was set in 2016-17. ... Bruno Caboclo had a career-high 17 rebounds. His previous best was 13 on March 27 against Golden State. . Point guard Mike Conley missed his fourth straight game with left ankle soreness.UP NEXTMavericks: Host the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday in their final home game of the season.Grizzlies: Play at Detroit on Tuesday in their last road game.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDALLAS — Dallas Mavericks star Dirk Nowitzki announced his retirement from the NBA after a record 21 seasons with the same franchise, giving the fans the secret he had kept all season after scoring 30 points in his final home game, a 120-109 win over the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday night.The 40-year-old showed his emotion during the game, fighting back tears just before action resumed at the start of the second quarter following a tribute video that detailed his holiday visit to a children's hospital.Nowitzki's final basket in Dallas was his signature one-legged fadeaway from slightly above the free throw line for a 120-108 lead with 1:22 remaining after the Mavericks had let a 30-point halftime cushion get cut to four in the fourth quarter.After speeches from Larry Bird and others he idolized growing up in Germany, Nowitzki told the crowd, "As you guys might expect, this is my last home game."The sellout crowd that followed owner Mark Cuban's orders by showing up early chanted "M-V-P" and "One more year" throughout the game. But after he made the announcement, the chant turned to "Thank you, Dirk" as Cuban started to speak.The 14-time All-Star has one game remaining, Dallas' season finale at San Antonio on Wednesday night."This is obviously super, super emotional," Nowitzki said. "Just too many people to really thank. I put you guys on a helluva ride with a lot of ups and downs, and you guys always stuck with me and supported me, so I appreciate it."Larger-than-life placards of Nowitzki's face were perched on most of the roughly 20,000 seats at American Airlines Center, and a huge mural hung over one of the entrances to the arena.Nowitzki, a few steps slower than in his prime and a role player on a team now led by rookie sensation and fellow European Luka Doncic, was serenaded in every road arena like it was a farewell tour.Last month, he gave the home folks the thrill of passing Wilt Chamberlain to regain sixth on the career scoring list. Nowitzki reached that spot last season, but LeBron James passed him. Nowitzki, who led the Mavericks to their only championship in 2011, has 31,540 points with one game left.The NBA's highest-scoring foreign-born player broke Kobe Bryant's record of 20 seasons with the same franchise, although it took longer than expected because of setbacks following ankle surgery that sidelined Nowitzki for the first 26 games. Bryant retired from the Lakers three years ago.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.He secured his season high in points with a straightaway 3-pointer, his fifth of the game, early in the third quarter for 22 points. That was followed by a rare slam dunk that elicited howls from the crowd and a big smile across Nowitzki's face.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history then drained another jumper for 26 points and an 80-49 Dallas lead. He re-entered the game with three minutes left and hit two more buckets to go 11 of 31 from the floor. He finished with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 32 minutes.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points -- one off his career best -- with 26 coming in the fourth quarter, to get the Suns as close as 105-100 with 4:20 to play.Crawford, 39, became the oldest player ever to score 50-plus points in an NBA game. The old mark was held by Michael Jordan, who was 38 when he scored 51 for the Washington Wizards on Dec. 29, 2001, against the Charlotte Hornets.According to ESPN, Crawford also became the first player to score 50 points for four different franchises (Chicago Bulls, New York Knicks, Golden State Warriors and now Phoenix).The Suns closed out a miserable season, finishing 19-63.A longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery kept Nowitzki out until mid-December. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career, and averaged 6.6 points in less than 15 minutes a game before Tuesday.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted "M-V-P! M-V-P!" Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2006-07 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.The future of the Mavs (33-48), rookie Luka Doncic, also didn't disappoint, notching his eighth triple-double with 21 points, 11 assists and 16 rebounds. He moved into sole possession of third place for most triple-doubles by a rookie.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSpeaking to local media around midday Thursday, Memphis Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said he hadn't talked with team owner Robert Pera yet, but he could make one declaration: Head coach J.B. Bickerstaff would return for a second season. Two hours later, that decision had changed, and several other moves were made.The Grizzlies fired Bickerstaff and demoted Wallace to a scouting role.Memphis also named Jason Wexler as team president with "oversight of both business and basketball operations," the team said in a statement. The Grizzlies promoted Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations, with former VP John Hollinger reassigned to a senior advisory position."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a reenergized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."--Sacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said.Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs. The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final postseason spot in the West.--Larry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed to part ways."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.--Cardiologists have cleared Chicago Bulls forward Lauri Markkanen to resume full basketball activities, the team announced.Markkanen, 21, experienced extreme fatigue and an accelerated heart rate during a game in Toronto on March 26. A battery of tests conducted at Chicago's Rush University Medical Center and Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore determined that dehydration and nutrient deficiency caused his symptoms.The 7-footer missed the rest of the regular season, finishing his second campaign with averages of 18.7 points and 9.0 rebounds in 52 games.--The Phoenix Suns officially named James Jones as general manager, giving him control over all basketball operations for the team.The Suns also added Jeff Bower as senior vice president of basketball operations and retained Trevor Bukstein as assistant general manager. Both will report to Jones, the team announced in a statement.Jones, 38, who played 14 seasons in the league and won three NBA championships, had served as Phoenix's VP of basketball operations the past two seasons. He shared GM duties this past season with Bukstein.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAnd the Oscar goes to … the Knicks?Not quite. But the team — and its woeful state as one of the worst teams in the N.B.A. — did get a shout out during the Academy Awards on Sunday night.When Samuel L. Jackson came out with Brie Larson to present the Best Adapted Screenplay award at the Oscars, he had a short preamble, a personal message to Spike Lee, a nominee and a famously devoted Knicks fan through thick and thin.“First of all, Spike, so glad you’re sitting down,” Jackson began. “After 18 consecutive home losses, the Knicks won tonight. I repeat, the Knicks won tonight, defeated San Antonio, 130-118”Jackson’s stats were accurate. The 18-game home losing streak had set a franchise record.Jackson’s news flash drew a laugh from Lee, and also an exclamation. It was not audible on the broadcast, but just about every armchair lip reader believed he said, “We’re trying to tank.”While you might think that the end of a long losing streak would delight a superfan like Lee, there are those Knicks supporters out there who don’t especially want to win many — or any — more games.If the Knicks finish in the bottom three of the N.B.A., they will get the best possible chance, 14 percent, to land the top draft pick in June. A recent injury aside, that is still expected to be the Duke star Zion Williamson. A bottom three finish would also give the Knicks a 40 percent chance at a top three pick.As of Monday morning, the Knicks stand at 12-48, for the second worst record. Despite their win, they look likely to grab a bottom three spot, probably alongside the Phoenix Suns (11-50) and Cleveland Cavaliers (14-46). But the Chicago Bulls are looming, two games “better” than the Cavs.The league actually changed the draft lottery percentages this season in an effort to cut down on tanking, particularly after the 76ers went on a multiyear losing period of terrible play that got them several top picks. A year ago, the worst record offered a full 25 percent chance at No. 1, with the second and third worst teams getting 20 and 16 percent chances.Lee has been the Knicks’ consensus No. 1 fan for years, sitting courtside and not infrequently interacting with players on both teams. Perhaps most infamously, in 1994, he jawed with the Pacers’ Reggie Miller in a conference finals game. Miller went on to the lead the Pacers to victory, drawing a “Thanks a Lot Spike” headline from The New York Daily News.Jackson and Lee have a history as well, with Jackson appearing in “Do the Right Thing,” “School Daze,” “Jungle Fever” and “Mo Better Blues.” They are also both alumni of Morehouse College.In this age of smartphones, there’s a good chance that those at the Oscars who cared already knew the Knicks score, perhaps including Lee.That wasn’t the case in 1976, when Elliott Gould, presenting the award for best editing, alerted the audience that Indiana had won the men’s basketball national championship, 86-68. “I listened to the score before we went out to make the presentation,” he told Grantland. “Literally in the wings, there was a radio there.”By the way, along with his co-writers, Lee won on Sunday, his first competitive Oscar. There is no evidence that “The Ballad of Buster Scruggs” or the other nominees engaged in any tanking.An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of the actor who presented the Academy Award for best editing in 1976. He is Elliott Gould, not Eliott.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCount Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James among those who were stunned by team president Magic Johnson's resignation on Tuesday night. But according to ESPN's Ramona Shelburne on Wednesday, James still stands behind the organization and Lakers owner Jeanie Buss.ESPN also reported that head coach Luke Walton participated in exit meetings with the players on Wednesday. Walton's job security is in jeopardy after the Lakers (37-45) missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season despite the offseason signing of James to a four-year, $154 million deal.James, 34, battled injuries and appeared in a career-low 55 games and averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists per game in 2018-19.--Following his meeting with Walton, James headed to New York, where he, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony watched Dwyane Wade play his final NBA game. The Miami Heat closed out the season against the Brooklyn Nets.After a pregame video tribute to Wade, the retiring superstar went over and hugged each of his three friends. The four have been friends for years, their bond immortalized by a photo of James, Wade and Paul riding a banana boat together while on vacation in 2015. Anthony was not in the picture but was also on vacation with the group.--Boston Celtics guard Marcus Smart has a torn left oblique and could miss the first two rounds of the Eastern Conference playoffs, according to a report from ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski.Smart averaged 8.9 points, 4.0 assists and 2.9 rebounds this season for the Celtics, who will be the fourth seed in the East after posting a 49-33 regular-season record. Boston will open at home this weekend against the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers. The physical guard is noted as one of the NBA's top defenders.Smart sustained the injury in a game against the Orlando Magic on Sunday, and he did not play in Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.--Anthony Davis acknowledged that despite his desire to leave New Orleans, he could begin the 2019-20 season with the Pelicans."I'm under contract still," Davis said during an informal season-ending news conference. "I have a year left. Obviously it's a possibility it could happen. I don't have ill will toward anybody. I know that it's a possibility that next year I could be here as well. So I can't be mad if I'm here next year."Davis said his next step will be to see who emerges as the general manager for the Pelicans. Dell Demps was fired in February after his handling of the Davis situation, and Danny Ferry is the interim general manager.--The Phoenix Suns have hired longtime NBA general manager Jeff Bower as their vice president of operations, Wojnarowski reported.Bower, 57, was general manager of the then-New Orleans Hornets from October 2005 to July 2010, and he also served as the team's head coach for most of the 2009-10 season after the firing of Byron Scott.The Suns have been without a general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.--The Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.Saunders, 32, is the youngest head coach in the league. He took over when Tom Thibodeau was fired in early January and has earned the endorsement of his players, most notably from All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.The Timberwolves were 36-45 entering Wednesday night's season finale at Denver, including a 17-24 mark under Saunders' leadership. Saunders reportedly will receive a three-year deal with a team option on the final season.--The Timberwolves also announced that guard Jeff Teague underwent successful debridement surgery Tuesday to clean out his left ankle. The team had no additional updates as to any recovery timetable.Teague played in 42 games for the Minnesota this season, averaging 12.1 points and a career-best 8.2 assists in 30.1 minutes. The team shut him down for the season in mid-March.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW ORLEANS — The Pelicans have reached an agreement in principle to make former Cleveland Cavaliers general manager David Griffin New Orleans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, three people familiar with the situation said Friday.The people spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because contract negotiations are ongoing and no announcement has been made.Griffin will take over for former Pelicans general manger Dell Demps, who was fired in the middle of his ninth season with the club — a few weeks after All-Star Anthony Davis' trade request in late January.Griffin's agreement to join New Orleans, which was first reported by ESPN, puts him at the center of the club's effort to find the best deal for Davis. Griffin also could decide the fate of Pelicans coach Alvin Gentry, who has two years left on his contract.The 45-year-old Griffin was the Cavaliers' GM from 2014 to 2017, during which LeBron James returned from Miami to Cleveland and the Cavs won an NBA title. The highlights of his tenure included a trade that brought star power forward Kevin Love to the Cavs. But Griffin's contract was not renewed after the 2016-17 season and James joined the Los Angele Lakers in free agency a year later. Griffin also worked in the Phoenix Suns' front office from 1993 until 2009, a stint that overlapped with Gentry's time as both a Suns assistant and head coach.Griffin was among six people interviewed by the Pelicans to replace Demps, including interim general manager Danny Ferry, Golden State assistant GM Larry Harris, Brooklyn Nets assistant GM Trajan Langon, Houston Rockets assistant GM Gersson Rosas and interim Washington president of basketball operations Tommy Sheppard.Now Griffin will attempt to transform a franchise that went 33-49 this season and has slightly better than a 25 percent chance of landing a top four pick in the NBA draft lottery on May 14.Trading Davis also could fetch a high draft choice, if Griffin chooses to go that route.Gentry has a regular-season record of 145-183 with one playoff appearance last season and one playoff series victory — a sweep of Portland before losing in five games to eventual champion Golden State.Although the Pelicans struggled this season, Gentry was commended by his players for his professionalism amid difficult circumstances."He's kind of been the guy who has let us grow," said Pelicans guard Jrue Holiday, who is coming off the best season of his 10-year NBA career. "I know he has for sure let me grow. He's given me responsibility ... and when he saw me succeed in it, he asked for more."Sometimes there's coaches that you kind of feel like they're holding you back as a player and kind of restrict you, but I feel like he kind of just lets you go and figure it out yourself," Holiday said earlier this week. "He's always been like a partner instead of like a dictator, and I feel like for professionals like ourselves and the guys in the locker room, we really respect that."Davis, who averaged 25.9 points, 12 rebounds and 2.4 blocks in 56 games, made his trade demand with 32 games left in the season and wound up missing 17 of those games, sometimes for rest and at other times was listed as out with back spasms, including for the final seven games.When he did play, it was rarely for much more than 20 minutes a game.The Pelicans will have a number of other pressing roster matters as well.Starting forward Julius Randle and starting point guard Elfrid Payton both will be free agents. Randle is coming off of the best season of his career — averaging 21.4 points and 8.7 rebounds. He credited the Pelicans with fostering his development and said he's open to coming back.Payton, who is from the New Orleans area, said playing in his hometown exceeded expectations and that he would like to be back. Payton missed much of the season with injuries, but also put together a historically significant string of five straight triple-doubles this spring.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaThe Los Angeles Lakers lost their season to injuries and general ineptitude weeks ago, and all that remains for them now are a handful of games and a playoff-free finish. It turns out there is still plenty of room for minor calamities along the way, which they proved at Madison Square Garden on Sunday afternoon.In a sleepy matinee devoid of long-term consequences, the Lakers’ 124-123 loss to the Knicks was, in some ways, a symbol for all that has gone wrong for them — and for LeBron James in particular. Absent a bunch of injured players, the Lakers crumbled against the worst team in the league, and James, for all his ability, was more problem than solution.After hogging the ball for his team’s final four possessions, James had a leaning runner — one that could have put his team ahead — blocked by the Knicks’ Mario Hezonja in the waning seconds. For the Knicks, who have been bound for the N.B.A. draft lottery since training camp, it was a rare chance to celebrate. For the Lakers, who had seemingly hit rock bottom when they lost to the Phoenix Suns two weeks ago, it was another opportunity to rev up the backhoe and dig a little deeper.“We got real stagnant,” said Lakers forward Kyle Kuzma, who was reduced to a spectator on the court late in the game as James tried to win it by himself.James’s appearances at the Garden are usually big deals. He likes the lights, the stage, the grandeur, the history. But the postbrunch atmosphere for Sunday’s game had all the buzz of a linoleum convention, an indictment of two lousy teams playing for nothing — and an indication, perhaps, that James has lost some of his luster this season.He had his moments — a dunk here, a no-look pass there — that had the crowd roaring with appreciation. James finished with 33 points, 8 assists and 6 rebounds, which is a fairly ordinary game for him — even now, at age 34, chest-deep in his 16th season.But he has set an impossible standard for himself, and his late-game struggles against the Knicks were emblematic of a season gone awry. He faded badly in the fourth quarter, shooting 4 of 15 from the field as Hezonja did what he could to make James’s afternoon as difficult as possible. James missed his final four field-goal attempts.“Anytime he was with the ball, I was trying to get him tired,” Hezonja said.It is hardly the worst strategy to have James dominate the ball in pressure situations and let him do what he wants. How many times has he come through?“Like, thousands,” Hezonja said.But this season has been a sad anomaly for James, who missed a large chunk of time with a groin injury and then did little to resuscitate things once he returned.In a few weeks, James’s streak of 13 straight playoff appearances and eight straight trips to the N.B.A. finals will come to an end. No one expected him to haul the Lakers (31-39) to the mountaintop — the roster was poorly constructed from the start — but the level of dysfunction has been fairly shocking. James is already banking on the off-season.“There’s a lot of great free agents this summer,” James said. “Not going to name any names, because every time I say something, or our organization says something about a specific person, we get in trouble. But we have an opportunity to get better.”For now, though, James is taking some hits to his reputation. There was the Anthony Davis saga, which seemed to erode whatever fragile chemistry the team had left. There was James’s subsequent pledge to “activate” himself into playoff mode, which merely resulted in more losses. And there was Sunday, when James tried to win the game by himself and came up empty.Even Walt Frazier, the Hall of Fame guard who is an analyst for MSG Network, criticized James during Sunday’s broadcast for sitting apart from his teammates, at the end of the bench, during an early timeout. “When you’re the face of the N.B.A., you should be more a part of the team,” Frazier said.To be fair, James was not in the game at the time, and he always sits at the end of the bench. But the optics were poor, and James has not been an exemplar of team-building this season. It has been easy to find faults. And sure enough, late in the fourth quarter, he appeared to show, once again, how little he trusts his teammates.“We got the ball in our best player’s hands and we tried to make him make the right decisions,” Kuzma said. “We just try and live with it.”The Knicks, who closed the game on a 13-1 run, have won 14 games this season. Two of those wins have come against the Lakers. James was asked if that bothered him.“It bothers me that we didn’t close the game out,” James said. “And being the competitor that I am, it bothers me that I didn’t make enough plays down the stretch. It bothers me that I didn’t even get a shot up at the hoop. Of course that stuff bothers me.“But what’s the difference between their record and our record? Two teams out of the postseason. So there’s no difference.”No difference between two bad teams, except that James plays for one of them. And that is the biggest surprise of all.Kelly Whiteside contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDALLAS — Dirk Nowitzki’s final N.B.A. game will take place in the same city — San Antonio — where he played what he considers the most important game of his life as well as what many rank as the best game of his career.Wednesday’s date with the San Antonio Spurs is suddenly poised to be recorded as the final outing of Nowitzki’s 21 seasons with the Dallas Mavericks — thanks to the retirement announcement he sprang on the American Airlines Center crowd after Dallas’s 120-109 victory Tuesday night over the Phoenix Suns.After scoring a season-high 30 points, albeit on 31 shot attempts, Nowitzki punctuated a postgame ceremony arranged to honor his long and decorated career by announcing that he is indeed retiring from the sport.“As you guys might expect, this is my last home game,” Nowitzki told the fans, finally addressing his future after trying to dodge questions on that topic all season in a futile attempt to avoid a so-called farewell tour.The Mavericks’ regular-season finale on the Spurs’ floor thus provides Nowitzki with a serendipitous opportunity to go out where he broke in. It was a 33-point, 14-rebound performance in the 1998 Nike Hoop Summit Game in San Antonio as a 19-year-old that, in Nowitzki’s words, “literally changed my life,” convincing Dallas that it had to do anything it could to draft the little-known German.Nowitzki, 40, went on to overcome a string of playoff disappointments and lead the Mavericks to the only championship in franchise history in 2011. His 21 consecutive seasons with one team is an N.B.A. record — and the 37 points and 15 rebounds he delivered against the five-time champion Tim Duncan in Game 7 of the Western Conference finals in San Antonio in 2006 is widely regarded as his most complete single-game performance.As the game’s sixth career leading scorer with 31,540 points, Nowitzki is often described as the best European import in N.B.A. history and credited with ushering in the modern era of power forward play in which players of all sizes were not only encouraged but expected to shoot proficiently from long range.“He’s our Roger Staubach,” said the longtime Mavericks General Manager Donnie Nelson, who did the loudest lobbying to persuade his father Don, then the Mavericks’ coach and general manager, to make any maneuvers necessary to select Nowitzki in the 1998 draft.Mark Cuban, the team’s owner, announced recently that the reluctant Nowitzki was getting an ornate send-off against the Suns “whether he wants it or not.” The Mavericks duly arranged for five of Nowitzki’s favorite players growing up — Charles Barkley, Scottie Pippen, Shawn Kemp, Detlef Schrempf and even Larry Bird — to fly in, stay out of public view during the game and then emerge to take part in the ceremony.The game itself, predictably, was also all about Nowitzki, with teammates, particularly the league’s rookie of the year favorite, Luka Doncic, feeding him incessantly as fans bayed at him to shoot at every opportunity.Before tipoff, Nowitzki jokingly asked a team staffer to look up how many shots Kobe Bryant took on the way to scoring 60 points in Bryant’s farewell game in April 2016. Informed that Bryant hoisted 50 shots that night, Nowitzki conceded that he very likely wouldn’t reach that territory, but promised to “let it fly.” He wound up taking Dallas’s first eight shots, scored 19 points in the first half and finished with 30 points on 11-for-31 shooting to match what his longtime rival Dwyane Wade of the Miami Heat managed in Wade’s final home game before retirement Tuesday night.The Suns’ Jamal Crawford, at 39, remarkably countered with 51 points, making Crawford the first player in league history to crack the 50-point mark with four different teams. The spotlight, though, never left Nowitzki, who revealed at a news conference after the game that he had decided in recent days that his surgically repaired left foot could not sustain a 22nd season.“I would love to be there for K.P. and Luka and all these young guys and have fun with them and mentor them as much as I can,” Nowitzki said, referring to Dallas’s embryonic star duo of Kristaps Porzingis and Doncic. “But it just doesn’t make any sense anymore physically. I think mentally I could still do it — I can always push myself to work out hard — but physically the foot is just not quite there.”Said Doncic, whose 21 points, 16 rebounds and 11 assists were overshadowed, like Crawford’s scoring outburst, by the Nowitzki party, “I was emotional, and the whole team was emotional, so imagine him.”Nowitzki acknowledged that he has been increasingly weepy over the past week, as the end of the regular season for the lottery-bound Mavericks — and a decision he could no longer delay — drew near. But he was openly giddy when he spoke of the former stars who shared in Tuesday’s festivities, proclaiming it an “amazing” evening.“They did this right,” he said.Asked if he was bothered at all that one more road game remained on Dallas’s schedule, as opposed to closing out the regular season at home, Nowitzki scoffed at the idea that the league’s schedule-makers had wronged him.“I’m totally fine with it,” he said. “The N.B.A. can’t keep up with the plans of a million players. They didn’t know if I was going to retire this season, last season or whatever.”There was likewise no protest from Holger Geschwindner, Nowitzki’s longtime shooting coach and the former captain of West Germany’s 1972 Olympic team. Geschwindner is known in Mavericks circles for being far harder to please than his star pupil, but he embraced the storybook nature of Nowitzki’s returning to the scene of his breakthrough performance at the Hoop Summit by traveling to South Texas one last time.“I think it’s great,” Geschwindner said. “That’s where it all started.”An earlier version of this article incorrectly described Dwyane Wade’s game Tuesday night. It was his final home game in Miami before retirement, not his final game.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellHOLBROOK, Ariz. — A wind that would not stop tugged at flags and sent sand devils spinning into this desert town as I walked past Mr. Maestas Restaurant and the Arizona Pawnman and the Empty Pockets Saloon and came to a rise and looked across an emptiness of plain that stretched the limits of vision.I recalled my talk a few days ago with Mike Budenholzer at the Ritz-Carlton in New York City. He coaches the Milwaukee Bucks, who finished the regular season with 60 wins and the best record in the N.B.A. His team features a brilliant Greek forward-guard-center named Giannis Antetokounmpo, Montenegrin and Turkish forwards, a Spanish center, and black and white players from corners rural and urban.He is known for his deft handling of diverse pro players. Where, I asked, did you pick up that skill?Let me tell you about my hometown, Holbrook, he said.Budenholzer, blue-eyed and middle-age, was once was a skinny, blond, teenage shooting guard in this old cattle and railway town. He starred on the Roadrunners basketball team at Holbrook High School alongside his boyhood friend B. J. Little, an African-American; a few Anglos; and a half-dozen Navajo boys who could run and pass all day and all night.“There’s no doubt in mind that my background there has helped me navigate life in the N.B.A.” Budenholzer said. “Growing up, you knew Navajo culture and black culture from Louisiana and Mexicans. I learned to foster the same sort of culture.”Holbrook comprises its own world, an isolated high desert city of 5,053 that sits on the southern lip of the Navajo Nation, which is the size of the Republic of Ireland. To the south lies the small Mormon town of Snowflake, and beyond that the forests and canyons of the White Mountain Apache Reservation, which is bigger than Delaware.Holbrook’s population is roughly 50 percent white and 50 percent Navajo, Hopi, Mexican and black. The city has long kept a dormitory for Navajo children whose parents want them to attend the well-regarded Holbrook High School. Founded in the 1880s, Holbrook was an outlaw-friendly habitat, and a sign on the South Side tends to underline this point: Bucket of Blood Street. Terrill’s Cottage Saloon once stood on this street, and more than a few cowpokes breathed their last there.Quite a few youngsters leave in search of better prospects. The city is tattered at the edges, a few buildings lie gape-toothed and abandoned, a motel stands vacant, and a single movie theater shows a single movie. But it’s a hospitable place, and the main drag, Navajo Boulevard, has Mexican restaurants and motels and Native American jewelry stores and a herd of giant plastic dinosaurs that signal proximity to Petrified Forest National Park.Budenholzer’s father, Vince, coached the basketball team and won a state championship in 1971 and was inducted into the state coaching hall of fame. At the time, Mike was an assistant to Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs. During a team visit to Phoenix, he told Popovich of his father’s ascent. When Vince showed up later that day, Popovich got down on a knee in the hotel and said, “Here is a real coach.”Father and son were two hoops tramps who traveled in school buses hundreds of miles across the empty quarter of Northern Arizona in search of games and wins.Vince’s Holbrook teams played a variation on the Native American hoops style known as Rez Ball: A quicksilver, sneaker-squeaking, run-pass-pass-shoot style, perfect for the Navajo and the Apache, for whom distance running is a millenniums-old tradition.“We pressed from the minute we stepped off the bus,” Vince said. ”I had one Navajo who was taller than 6 foot, and so what?”Vince is 89 and still lean in that way of an old athlete, and he and his wife, Libby, moved nine years ago to Queen Valley, in the cactus foothills of the Superstition Mountains, east of Phoenix. They miss Holbrook; it remains the home of their hearts, but the winters on that mile-high plateau ran them off. “The winds never stop blowing,” Libby said.The couple raised seven children, five boys and two girls, in a small house across Florida Street from Hunt Park. Libby became a councilwoman and served a term as mayor, and Vince moonlighted as Holbrook’s parks and recreation director during the summer. He built a hoop in his backyard and put up a floodlight so the teenagers could play into the evening.Little, Mike’s old teammate who is now a judge in nearby Winslow, drove me by that house, which was sold years back. The hoop still stood.“Oh man, we’d play there the whole night, and Vince would never stop coaching,” Little said. “My grandparents said I had to get home before the streetlights came on. But if I was playing ball with Mikey at the Budenholzers, that was my pass.”Father and son Budenholzer flashed hauntingly similar smiles when they recalled those days. Mike was the leading scorer on the Roadrunners, a kid who could shoot from near and far and almost as well with his left hand as his right. Little, whose grandparents came from Louisiana to work in the McNary Saw Mill, ripped rebounds, and the Navajo kids dribbled and ran and pressed.The day before the tournament, two of the best players got drunk. They were suspended, and that left the Roadrunners with one star: Mike Budenholzer. That was not enough horsepower, and the team lost. “It boggled my mind that they would get caught,” Mike said.“I think I would give up an N.B.A. championship to get that one back,” he said.I looked at him: You’re kidding, right? He shrugged. “I mean, winning a state championship in Arizona, that’s a big deal.”Navajo and Mexican and Anglo kids still play baseball, basketball and football and live more or less shoulder to shoulder. “It was a town where you played everything and with everyone else,” Mike said. “The only social rule you recognized in high school was that Mormon girls don’t date non-Mormons.”He shrugged. “So you adjust.”Budenholzer was a good student and got into Pomona College, a fine liberal arts institution in California. He was not yet sold. He was a jock and he wanted to play basketball and he already had a scholarship offer in hand.He visited Pomona and sat around with other students and listened as they talked of their choices. There was the kid who was weighing Williams College or Pomona, and another who was wait-listed at Stanford University. They looked at Budenholzer and asked, What about you?“I tell them I’m trying to choose between Pomona and Yavapai Community College, where I could get a free ride,” Budenholzer said. “And they were, like, ‘whaaaat?’ And I’m thinking, ‘What am I doing here, I’m in the wrong place.’ ”His brothers and sisters decided Mikey, the youngest, was going to Pomona. They pooled money as best they could so he could afford it. He graduated with a degree in philosophy and economics.Before he left Holbrook and set out on his life journey, Budenholzer did what he did every summer, which is to say he rounded up B. J. Little and other buddies and piled into a car and headed north to play in the informal spring tournaments that are a staple of life on the Navajo reservation. They drove across washes and around canyons and past red-ribbed buttes that reared like primeval monsters. They pulled into Navajo towns: Dilkon and Window Rock, Tuba City and Ganado, anywhere there was a tournament.They got caught up in endless Rez Ball games, running and shooting and banging one another from morning till late at night. As hoops is civic religion on the rez, crowds of hundreds watched and cheered, not least for the bilagaanas (Navajo for whites).“Those spring tournaments got rough, the referees were terrible and man, it was just the best,” Budenholzer said.During the season when reservation teams arrived to play Holbrook, a long line of cars would follow. The rule was straightforward for Holbrook’s fans, Vince said. Make it to the gym by 4 p.m. for a 7 p.m. game, or you could forget about finding a seat.It is not so different when Mike’s teams pull into Phoenix. After working as an assistant with the Spurs, he coached the Atlanta Hawks before coming to Milwaukee. Whenever his team plays the Phoenix Suns, Little’s sister sets to work organizing a Holbrook caravan. Dozens of cars wend their way down through ponderosa forests and jagged mountains to the game — whites, Mexicans, blacks and Navajos, sometimes 100 strong. After the game, Budenholzer talks with them.“It always moves me,” Mike says.It’s been a long time since he left home. This summer, after the N.B.A. playoffs and before the pro summer leagues begin, he and Vince and Libby plan to drive up through the Tonto National Forest and across the Salt River Canyon to Holbrook. And when they reach their old high school gym, they will find teammates and students and teachers and townspeople gathered to listen as Superintendent Robert Koerperich dedicates the Vince Budenholzer gym floor.“To let our kids know that you can come out of Holbrook and coach a pro team, how amazing is that?” Koeperich says.Mike Budenholzer looks forward to walking Navajo Boulevard and maybe seeing the family house again. Then he wants to stand behind Vince and Libby and clap so hard.“To have raised seven kids on a teacher’s salary in a great small town and let us interact and form great friendships with Navajos and Mexicans and blacks and Mormons. They were really ahead of their time,” Budenholzer said. “This is America.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinIn a wholly unforeseen span of about 20 seconds Sunday night, viewers of the Academy Awards were exposed to an impromptu bit of sports-radio banter inspired by the faraway N.B.A.Yet it was the sort of back-and-forth, however brief, that makes the league truly uncomfortable.On what would soon become the most successful evening of Spike Lee’s professional life, Samuel L. Jackson announced from the Dolby Theater stage in Los Angeles that Lee’s beloved Knicks had beaten the San Antonio Spurs at Madison Square Garden to halt a franchise-record home losing streak at 18 consecutive defeats.Lee, who was moments away from winning his first competitive Oscar, appeared to mouth back to Jackson that the Knicks were “trying to tank” — N.B.A.-speak for teams that seek to improve their position in the draft as much as possible through rampant losing.Spike Lee: "WE'RE TRYING TO TANK" pic.twitter.com/zMXArdVPr0In truth, nothing the Knicks could do — even winning — could diminish the occasion for Lee. The Knicks’ most famous fan won the Oscar that had eluded him for more than 30 years and surely knew as well as anyone that one measly victory, even over the Spurs and their decorated coach, Gregg Popovich, wouldn’t knock the team too far off course in its shameless bid to finish at the bottom of the standings.But the exchange and ensuing waves of social media chatter shined the brightest of unwanted spotlights on a subject that N.B.A. officials undoubtedly wish would not have surfaced in this manner.For it is the public discourse that surrounds tanking — which inevitably leads to otherwise passionate fans like Lee openly wishing for their teams to lose — that has long been regarded at league headquarters as the most unsavory element of the practice.Tanking, in itself, can be a foolhardy strategy — especially in the wake of a procedural change this season. This is the first year since the inception of the N.B.A.’s draft lottery in 1985 that the teams holding the three lowest win totals will share flattened odds of 14 percent each of landing the No. 1 selection in June.Previously, the team with the worst record had a 25 percent chance of winning the top overall pick. But Commissioner Adam Silver’s push for so-called lottery reform has made it even tougher for the worst team in pro basketball — currently the Phoenix Suns, who, at 12-50, are a game behind the Knicks (12-48) — to win the right to (presumably) select the highly coveted Duke freshman Zion Williamson.If only there were clear measures to be taken to try to drown out the persistent tanking talk that seemingly (and loudly) swirls around every bad N.B.A. team. “Corrosive” is the word Silver used at his annual All-Star Weekend news conference in Charlotte, N.C., this month.“I personally don’t think it’s a winning strategy over the long term to engage in multiple years of rebuilding,” Silver said. “There’s a mind-set that, if you’re going to be bad, you might as well be really bad. I believe personally that’s corrosive for those organizations.”The Philadelphia 76ers are the rare franchise in position to differ. They amassed a load of lottery picks and other trade assets across a three-year window of intentional losing during the polarizing reign of their former general manager Sam Hinkie, who stepped down in April 2016 in response to a reduction in his authority over basketball matters before having the chance to reap the full benefits of all his team’s futility.Several of Hinkie’s high-profile draftees — Jahlil Okafor, Nerlens Noel and Dario Saric — fell well short of becoming the sort of fulcrums teams build around. Ditto for the 2017 No. 1 overall pick Markelle Fultz, who was drafted by Bryan Colangelo, Hinkie’s initial replacement. But the two selections who did become franchise players — Joel Embiid (by Hinkie) and Ben Simmons (two months after Hinkie’s exit) — now find themselves flanked by the former All-Star Jimmy Butler and a potential future All-Star in Tobias Harris. Butler and Harris arrived via trades that the Sixers’ new general manager, Elton Brand, was able to swing this season on the strength of the various trade chips Philadelphia had stockpiled under Hinkie.It is too early to say whether Silver’s lottery-reform crusade will actually quell further tanking attempts from teams pondering the Philadelphia model, but it has a chance. The flattened odds of winning the lottery mean that the Suns, Knicks and Cleveland Cavaliers, who currently comprise the bottom three teams, all face a daunting 86 percent chance that someone else wins the Zion Sweepstakes when the lottery is held May 14.One can safely assume that Lee and countless other Knicks fans will be shouting less flattering things as opposed to just mouthing them if all this losing they have endured this season leads to drafting someone other than Williamson.Since the Knicks are now linked with the 1993-94 Dallas Mavericks, having narrowly avoided breaking that team’s league record of 19 straight home losses with that unexpected triumph over San Antonio on Sunday, it is worth remembering what happened to the Mavericks that season.With Jamal Mashburn as their star rookie rather than Chris Webber or Penny Hardaway, after the Mavericks fell to the No. 4 overall pick the previous off-season despite boasting the highest odds of winning the draft lottery, they posted a 13-69 record.That is the type of cautionary tale that Silver, even as tanking talk persists, can forever serve up to discourage actual tanking: In the 34-year history of the lottery, only eight times has the team with the worst record managed to win the No. 1 pick.At least one Knicks fan in Hollywood finds the idea of tanking in professional sports to be “a horrible thing to even think about.” The actor Leon Robinson, who starred in “Above the Rim” and “Cool Runnings” and has made numerous appearances at The Garden this season, said in a phone interview Monday: “I’m never happy to see my team lose. I’m in The Garden — people go crazy every time they even get close to winning. Every time they’re losing, people are shaking their heads at halftime. So I’m confused. Why are you coming to the game?”Lee, however, is hardly alone in lusting after Williamson. It’s an open secret that the Knicks are dreaming of a mammoth free-agent coup this summer with the more than $70 million of salary-cap space they can clear; Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving are widely regarded as the Knicks’ top two targets. But make no mistake: The Knicks themselves, not just a segment of the fan base, are dreaming of Zion, too — no matter what history says.Given the immediate on-court impact one extremely gifted young man can have, in this five-on-five sport more than any other, it will probably always be thus.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points. At age 39, he became the oldest player ever to reach 50 in an NBA game.Heat 122, 76ers 99Dwyane Wade, playing the final home game of his NBA career, scored 30 points to lead Miami over Philadelphia.Wade made 10 of 23 shots, including 4 of 10 on attempts from beyond the arc. It was his second-highest scoring game of the season. But it was a bittersweet night for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention earlier in the evening when the Detroit Pistons rallied from a 22-point deficit to defeat the Memphis Grizzlies.Philadelphia, which has already clinched the third seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs, rested two of its stars: Joel Embiid, who was listed as having a knee injury, and JJ Redick (back).Warriors 112, Pelicans 103DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds against his former team as visiting Golden State defeated New Orleans.After clinching home-court advantage throughout the Western Conference playoffs on Sunday, the Warriors had Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson, Andre Iguodala and Andrew Bogut among their inactive players. Stephen Curry left for game after scoring five points in nine minutes in what the Warriors called "a precaution" after he sustained a mild foot sprain.Jahlil Okafor scored 30 points to lead the short-handed Pelicans, who dressed just eight players and finished the season 33-49.Raptors 120, Timberwolves 100Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points as visiting Toronto completed its regular-season schedule with a victory over Minnesota.The Raptors (58-24) secured the second-best record in the Eastern Conference with the win, behind only the Milwaukee Bucks (60-21), who play their final game Wednesday.Fred VanVleet added 16 points for the Raptors, Chris Boucher added career bests with 15 points and 13 rebounds, and Pascal Siakam and Norman Powell each scored 10 points. Gorgui Dieng and Andrew Wiggins each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves.Jazz 118, Nuggets 108Donovan Mitchell matched his career best of 46 points, and Utah posted a victory over Denver in Salt Lake City.Rudy Gobert added 20 points and 10 rebounds as Utah notched its ninth straight home win against Denver. Utah locked up the No. 5 seed for the Western Conference playoffs.Malik Beasley scored 25 points on 9-of-13 shooting for the Nuggets, who have lost four of their past six games and are a half-game ahead of Houston after the Rockets fell to the Oklahoma City Thunder on Tuesday.Trail Blazers 104, Lakers 101Instead of quietly sneaking into the offseason after losing its season finale to playoff-bound Portland, Los Angeles made some noise when Magic Johnson announced his resignation as president of basketball operations for the team.The game still meant something for Portland, though, and the Trail Blazers clinched home-court advantage in the first round of the Western Conference playoffs when Maurice Harkless made a 3-pointer at the buzzer for a win. The Trail Blazers can overtake the Rockets on a tiebreaker to finish third in the West with a win against the visiting Sacramento Kings on Wednesday.Harkless, who left the previous game with left hip tightness, finished with 26 points. Kentavious Caldwell-Pope had 32 points and eight assists for the Lakers, who finished with 37 wins -- two more than last season.Thunder 112, Rockets 111Russell Westbrook scored 29 points, but it was Paul George's corner 3-pointer with 1.8 seconds left that sent Oklahoma City to a home win over Houston.Oklahoma City trailed by 14 early in the fourth quarter and by four in the final minute before Westbrook's and George's heroics.James Harden made his first 12 free throws in the game but with less than 10 seconds left and Houston on top 111-109, he missed one, giving the Thunder a chance to tie or take the lead. Westbrook barreled up the court, briefly handing the ball off to Steven Adams near midcourt before getting the ball and firing it to George in the corner for what proved to be the game-winner.Celtics 116, Wizards 100Terry Rozier led seven Boston players in double figures with 21 points as his team closed out the regular season with a win over host Washington.The Celtics rallied from a 13-point, third-quarter deficit for their sixth win in eight games. Boston, which played without Marcus Smart, Jayson Tatum, Kyrie Irving, Al Horford, Marcus Morris, Aron Baynes and Gordon Hayward, will be the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs.Semi Ojeleye, Brad Wanamaker and RJ Hunter had 17 points apiece for Boston, which outscored Washington 27-15 in the fourth quarter. Tomas Satoransky led the Wizards with 19 points, and Bradley Beal scored 16 points in 16 minutes. Beal became the first person in franchise history to finish a season averaging at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists per game.Pistons 100, Grizzlies 93Andre Drummond scored 20 points and grabbed 17 rebounds, and Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to defeat visiting Memphis.Despite winning, the Pistons were unable to clinch the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. The Charlotte Hornets beat the Cleveland Cavaliers and remain one game behind Detroit heading into Wednesday night's final regular-season games. The Pistons finish against the Knicks at New York while the Hornets host the Orlando Magic.The Pistons, who trailed by 22 in the second quarter, climbed all the way back and took an 85-83 lead on Ish Smith's jumper just moments after his 3-pointer tied the score at 83-all. Smith finished with 22 points off the bench, and Luke Kennard added 15 for Detroit.Hornets 124, Cavaliers 97Kemba Walker and Jeremy Lamb scored 23 points apiece, and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive with a victory over host Cleveland.The Hornets led by 12 points in the first half and then pushed the lead all the way to 27 in the fourth quarter, winning their fourth straight and eighth in their past 11 games. They hit a season-high 22 3-pointers on 44 attempts and shot 57.7 percent from the field.Miles Bridges and Dwayne Bacon added 18 points apiece for the Hornets. Frank Kaminsky scored 14 and Devonte Graham had 10. Collin Sexton led the Cavs with 18 points.Knicks 96, Bulls 86Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points and Kevin Knox and Luke Kornet each notched double-doubles to lead New York past host Chicago.Knox had 17 points and 10 rebounds, Kornet chipped in 12 points and 13 rebounds and Damyean Dotson added 12 points for the Knicks (17-64), who are already assured of the NBA's worst record this season. They can do no worse than tie the franchise record for fewest wins in a regular season, set in 2014-15.The Bulls closed the home portion of their schedule with a 9-32 record, setting a franchise record for home futility. The 2000-01 team held the previous club standard for fewest home victories with 10.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah Mervosh and Christina CaronOn Friday, all 28 players on the United States women’s soccer team filed a gender discrimination lawsuit against the United States Soccer Federation, an escalation in their increasingly public battle for equality.The players have said that they play more games than the men’s team — and win more of them — yet still receive less pay. They said “institutionalized gender discrimination” affected not only their paychecks, but also where they played and how often, how they trained, the medical care and coaching they received, and even how they traveled to matches.They are not alone in their fight for fairer pay and better treatment. Here are eight times in recent memory when women fought for equality in sports.Experts claimed for years that distance running was damaging to women’s health and femininity.In 1967, women weren’t allowed to officially enter the Boston Marathon, so Kathrine Switzer entered that year as “K.V. Switzer” to hide her gender.Two miles in, an official tried to eject her from the course, a moment captured in dramatic photographs. She finished anyway, becoming the first woman to complete the race as an official entrant.“We learned that women are not deficient in endurance and stamina, and that running requires no fancy facilities or equipment,” Switzer wrote in The New York Times in 2007.Women were officially allowed to enter the race in 1972. Women’s marathoning joined the Olympics in 1984.The year 1973 was a big one for Billie Jean King, the trailblazing tennis star.She founded the Women’s Tennis Association. She led a movement for female players to earn equal prize money in tournaments that featured players of both sexes.And, on a September night at the Astrodome in Houston, she epitomized her crusade for gender equality when she handily beat Bobby Riggs, a self-described male chauvinist pig, in the Battle of the Sexes.King went on to receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2009 for her work championing the rights of women and gay people. She is considered to be one of the most important athletes of the 20th century.“Everyone thinks women should be thrilled when we get crumbs,” King once said. “I want women to have the cake, the icing and the cherry on top, too.”Chris Ernst is a two-time Olympic rower. But in the spring of 1976, she was the captain of Yale University’s women’s crew team — and sick of not having proper showers to use after practice.She led 18 teammates in an eye-catching protest at Yale’s athletic office. The athletes stripped to their waists, revealing the words “Title IX,” which had been drawn in blue marker on each woman’s back and breasts.The Times ran an article in the next day’s paper, and a photograph of the history-making event also ran in The Yale Daily News.Within two weeks, the female rowers had new locker rooms. And, across the country, educators began viewing Title IX — which had been in effect for just four years — as a law that required compliance.In 2007, after pressure from the tennis great Venus Williams and others, Wimbledon announced that women’s tennis players would receive prize money equal to the men’s.Williams had made a failed plea to Wimbledon’s governing body the night before she won the title in 2005. And in 2006, she wrote an op-ed essay in The Times of London titled “Wimbledon Has Sent Me a Message: I’m Only a Second Class Champion.”“Have you ever been let down by someone that you had long admired, respected and looked up to?” she wrote. “Little in life is more disappointing, particularly when that person does something that goes against the very heart of what you believe is right and fair.”After the policies changed in 2007, she was awarded $1.4 million for her fourth Wimbledon victory, the same amount as the men’s champion, Roger Federer.In March 2017, the women’s national hockey team announced that it would boycott the coming world championship if U.S.A. Hockey, the sport’s national governing body, did not increase the women’s wages.“It’s hard to believe that in 2017, we have to fight so hard just to get equitable support,” Meghan Duggan, the team’s captain, said at the time. “We want to do the fair thing, and the right thing — not just for hockey but for all women.”They put their careers on the line, but the risk paid off.Less than two weeks later, the team reached a four-year deal with U.S.A. Hockey. It provided the female players a $2,000 training stipend each month from the United States Olympic Committee and larger bonuses for winning medals. The team also received the same travel and insurance provisions that the men’s national team did, and a pool of prize money to be split each year.Four prominent female big-wave surfers, Bianca Valenti, Andrea Moller, Keala Kennelly and Paige Alms, spent years fighting for equal pay in the largely male sport where they regularly risk their lives.Last July, the Committee for Equity in Women’s Surfing, an organization formed by six women, sent letters to the California Coastal Commission arguing that by treating women unequally, the World Surf League was in violation of state civil rights law.Months later, in September, Valenti and other female surfers earned a victory when the World Surf League announced it would offer equal prize money to men and women.Valenti, along with Sabrina Brennan, the president of the San Mateo County Harbor Commission, and Karen Tynan, a labor lawyer, also successfully pushed for women to be included in the Maverick’s Challenge, a big-wave surfing competition that had traditionally invited only men.“Some people would tell me that by trying to get the (prize) pie redistributed I was ruining it for everyone,” Moller said in December. “But I would just say: ‘That’s wrong. We’re fighting for the industry. People love watching women surf big waves, so the whole sport will grow.’”In the world of professional basketball, pay disparities are well-documented: In the N.B.A., a multibillion-dollar industry where players often make millions, the minimum starting salary is about eight times what the average W.N.B.A. player makes.And female players are speaking up, on social media and on TV.Skylar Diggins-Smith, the W.N.B.A. All-Star who plays guard for the Dallas Wings, recently appeared in a commercial to raise awareness about pay inequity.The commercial, by the investment adviser Wealthsimple, contrasts the paths of two young players, a boy and a girl. Each lists their basketball dreams and accomplishments, but only one will grow up to receive a multimillion-dollar rookie contract.A’ja Wilson, a star rookie who was the first overall W.N.B.A. draft pick in 2018, has also weighed in: “must. be. nice,” she wrote about LeBron James’s $154 million contract with the Los Angeles Lakers. “We over here looking for a M but Lord, let me get back in my lane.”Wilson earned about $53,000 that season. The top N.B.A. draft pick last year, Deandre Ayton, was expected to earn about $6.8 million in his first year playing for the Phoenix Suns.Ada Hegerberg, a 23-year-old Norwegian, was recognized as the best female soccer player in the world last year when she became the first person to win the women’s Ballon d'Or, a prestigious individual honor in soccer that had previously been reserved for men.Despite the big award, she has decided not to play on the biggest stage of all, the Women’s World Cup, in France this summer.Hegerberg quit the Norwegian national team in 2017 in protest of what she said was a lack of support for women’s soccer in her home country.“I was quite clear with them about what I thought needed to be better,” she said in an interview after winning the Ballon d’Or. “I gave them the reasons. I wish my national team all the best. I love my country. I wish I could play for them. In this case, I had to move on.”Maya Salam and Mihir Zaveri contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott Cacciola and Marc TracyLOS ANGELES — The criminal case involving one of President Trump’s leading adversaries and the world’s biggest shoe company has also ensnared an unlikely figure from the youth basketball world.The coach, Gary Franklin Sr., started his club from scratch in Los Angeles and ran a program known for its rectitude, according to Sonny Vaccaro, the former Nike and Adidas executive who essentially forged the relationship between the shoe industry and the summer youth basketball circuit. What began as a team for Franklin to coach his then 10-year-old son became a powerhouse club that attracted future N.B.A. stars and major college recruits, and one that steered clear of any scandals.“He was one of the guys who built it up through his own resources, and his program had a reputation as one of the ‘good guys,’” Vaccaro said of Franklin in an interview this week.Franklin’s club, California Supreme, and others like it are major participants in a system involving youth basketball, shoe companies and colleges that supplies the professional game with a deep reservoir of talent. And Michael Avenatti knew it.Now Franklin has become a central figure in the case against Avenatti, the lawyer best known for representing Stormy Daniels, the adult film star, in her lawsuit against President Trump. Whether Franklin, who has not been charged, is an accomplice, a co-conspirator or simply collateral damage is not yet clear, but prosecutors’ revelations about his involvement have stunned those who have known him for years.The question in the club basketball world is, could Franklin have morphed from a stickler who played by the rules into the latest symbol of an amateur basketball world that has spun out of control?“Cal Supreme was always the best team for doing things by the book, because there were a lot of other teams that didn’t do it by the book,” said Andy Brown, a former forward for Cal Supreme who went on to play at Stanford. “And Cal Supreme did it by the book.”California Supreme reached its zenith at the 2016 Peach Jam, a summertime showcase for the best travel basketball teams and players in the country. In the final event of the Nike-sponsored league, Deandre Ayton, a towering Bahamian who was about to turn 18, helped the team reel off a huge winning streak before Cal Supreme fell to the eventual champions.For Franklin, a soft-spoken coach from Los Angeles, the run was a triumph. His Nike-sponsored team was one of the best in the country in what is now known as grass-roots basketball.Three years later, Franklin, 51, is in a different spotlight, with federal prosecutors accusing Avenatti of extortion for threatening Nike with the release of information that Avenatti had pledged would damage the company’s stock-market value to the tune of a few billion dollars. Specifically, Avenatti had told Nike lawyers this month that a coach in Nike’s grass-roots basketball league had approached him with information that company employees had paid the families of three players, prosecutors said. Avenatti, prosecutors said, demanded that Nike pay millions to make the whole thing go away.Paying players and their families would violate N.C.A.A. rules, rendering the players ineligible for college play. Also, if the money was paid in exchange for players to commit to colleges Nike sponsors, it would resemble the behavior that recently led to federal fraud convictions for two former Adidas employees.Two people familiar with the investigation confirmed that the unidentified coach in the complaint is Franklin. Nike had recently declined to renew its sponsorship deal with Cal Supreme, which was worth more than $70,000 annually. Franklin could not be reached for comment.Grass-roots basketball is often erroneously called A.A.U. basketball, even in prosecutors’ court filings. That is a misnomer because the elite leagues are not sponsored by the Amateur Athletic Union. Rather, they are supported by sneaker companies that spend hundreds of thousands of dollars every year to organize tournaments from April through July. The teenage players who participate are outfitted, from head to toe, in apparel made by and bearing the logo of the league’s sponsor.Sneaker companies like Nike and Adidas also pay thousands of dollars each year to sponsor the teams themselves as a sort of long-term investment strategy: They hope to build brand loyalty among young players who could eventually become stars. Get players into your gear early, the thinking goes, and you may be more likely to land them as spokesmen when they turn pro and have even more influence over the world’s fans — and their wallets.“Sneaker companies want to make money,” said Dr. Todd Boyd, a professor at the University of Southern California who was the executive producer of a 2016 documentary, “At All Costs: Life Inside A.A.U. Basketball.” “That’s their objective. And if you have a kid who’s good enough to go on to the N.B.A., and he chooses to continue wearing these shoes, you’ve made a long-term investment that could pay off for years.”At the same time, the grass-roots basketball landscape has shifted in recent years as N.B.A. players like Bradley Beal, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony have increasingly become involved in forming their own teams. These are players who already have partnerships with shoe companies and can help subsidize costs on their own. Last year, Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder, who has an endorsement deal with Nike’s Jordan brand, organized a Los Angeles-based team that advanced to the playoffs at the Peach Jam.Franklin was far from the N.B.A. when he started his team.A flattering portrait of Franklin is included in “Play Their Hearts Out,” a 2010 book by George Dohrmann that details youth basketball culture in Southern California. Franklin, according to the book, played basketball and football at Los Angeles Valley College. Later, he doted on his son, Gary Jr., creating a club team he initially called the Runnin’ Rebels. He preached fundamentals during their practices at Manual Arts High School and spoke openly about his faith in God. Gary Franklin Jr. went on to play college basketball at Baylor.Cal Supreme did not have lavish resources. When Brown, the Stanford player, was with the team, it practiced at various Los Angeles-area high schools. Parents subsidized costs. And players paid for their own meals at tournaments.Yet neither Brown nor his teammates were naïve about the world they inhabited.“Everybody who played knew what was going on,” Brown said. “We all knew people who were getting paid, we all knew people who were getting free stuff — we all knew it. Now, it’s all coming out. So it’s shocking, but it’s not shocking, because we all knew it was happening.”For years, the sponsorship deals have been heavily dependent on grass-roots coaches’ attracting the best players to their programs. Cal Supreme appeared to have enough talent over the years to keep Nike interested, producing players who ultimately landed at major college programs like Southern California, Oregon and Arizona, along with several who went to the N.B.A.Big names circled in Cal Supreme’s orbit. Miles Simon, a guard who had won an N.C.A.A. championship while playing at Arizona, was one of the program’s coaches from 2011 to 2014. (Simon, who now works as an assistant for the Lakers, declined to comment through a Lakers spokeswoman.) Shareef O’Neal, a top-tier recruit and the son of Shaquille O’Neal, played for Cal Supreme before going to U.C.L.A. More recently, Percy Miller, the businessman and rapper known as Master P, was listed on Cal Supreme’s website as a team partner.Ayton, who spent a season at Arizona before the Phoenix Suns made him the top overall pick in the 2018 N.B.A. draft, was Cal Supreme’s highest-profile player. But in a twist, after years of wearing Nikes, Ayton signed a lucrative deal to wear Pumas when he went to the N.B.A. For Nike, it was an investment that did not pay off.It remains unclear whether Ayton’s deal played any role in Nike’s decision not to extend its sponsorship deal with Cal Supreme.Cassius Stanley, a top-30 recruit and a senior at Sierra Canyon High School outside Los Angeles, played for Cal Supreme in 2016 and for Westbrook’s team in 2018. His father, Jerome Stanley, who works as a lawyer, said that as far as he knew, Nike had never provided Cal Supreme players or their family members with benefits that would violate N.C.A.A. rules.“It is very sad that Coach Gary has gotten himself tangled up in this mess,” Stanley said. “I feel bad for him and his family, and I pray that he and his lawyers can help him move on and not be damaged or used any more than he has been the past few days.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Consider the following scenes from the N.B.A.’s annual bacchanal/business convention known as All-Star weekend:Spike Lee standing on a street corner waiting for the crosswalk signal. Stan Kroenke, whose family owns the Denver Nuggets, holding court in a hotel lobby. Joel Embiid, the star center of the Philadelphia 76ers, making small talk with the governor of North Carolina. An army of personal stylists waiting to be summoned by their clients for some of the flashiest events of the year.And then there were the agents and league officials and sneakerheads and reporters, some of whom traveled great distances to make unconventional requests of the weekend’s main attractions.“Shout out to my fans in Mongolia!” John Collins of the Atlanta Hawks yelled into a camera the morning before his appearance in the Saturday slam dunk contest.[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]All-Star weekend tends to be a blend of basketball and branding, business and pleasure — a showcase for a powerful league whose global influence continues to expand.“The whole weekend,” Mike Conley of the Memphis Grizzlies said, “is just a big party.”The All-Star Game itself, scheduled for Sunday night, felt secondary to just about everything else in the host city, as it has for many years. Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets, recalled waiting in line in 2006 for one of the more popular parties at All-Star weekend in Houston, where he watched Maciej Lampe — a center from Poland who appeared in 64 career games over parts of three seasons — bypass the line so that he could immediately be waved inside by security.“And I’m like, ‘Man, I’m behind Maciej Lampe?’” said Morey, who would officially join the front office of the Rockets a little more than six weeks later.All-Star weekend has only grown in recent years. One spreadsheet making the rounds in Charlotte listed more than 100 parties, and that did not include many of the more exclusive events. (Michael Jordan hosted a big one.) Thanks to a change in the league schedule, there is more partying and less deal-making than there used to be.Last year, the league moved the trade deadline up so that it preceded All-Star weekend. In the past, the deadline came a few days after the game, a sequence which helped create its share of absurdity. One of the more notorious examples came in 2017, when word leaked during the fourth quarter of the All-Star Game that the New Orleans Pelicans had struck a deal to acquire DeMarcus Cousins from the Sacramento Kings. Cousins learned of the trade during postgame interviews.The weekend vibe is different now.“It’s so much more fun,” one prominent agent said at a party that he hosted.In the corner, a disc jockey who appeared to be in his 60s spun tunes in a Hawaiian shirt and red-tinted glasses, while women wearing bright red dresses passed out hors d’oeuvres. Agents, clients and marketing honchos milled about the room.But none of this is meant to suggest that deals do not get done.On Thursday night, at a downtown hotel bar where patrons sipped $25 cocktails, a crowd of very tall men gathered as a private event wound down at a nearby steakhouse. Among the luminaries who emerged from the event: Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner; Kroenke, who also owns the Los Angeles Rams; Brian Rolapp, the N.F.L.’s chief media and business officer; Bill Simmons, the founder of The Ringer; Connor Schell, ESPN’s executive vice president for content; and Bob Myers, the general manager of the Golden State Warriors.“There are definitely conversations happening,” Morey said. “And there’s serendipity involved. You’re always bumping into people.”Morey was finishing lunch at an upscale restaurant. Warren LeGarie, a longtime agent to many coaches and executives, and Kiki Vandeweghe, the league’s executive vice president for basketball operations, were dining at nearby tables. Morey was about to head into a meeting with Vandeweghe and Monty McCutchen, who supervises the league’s referees.“Obviously, we care deeply about where the league is going,” Morey said, “so talking to Adam Silver about strategy or Monty McCutchen about changing how they might call certain things — all that kind of stuff could impact our franchise moving forward, so I try to be involved.”The atmosphere may seem more relaxed than it was two years ago, when most team executives and agents were focused on the trade deadline, but the shift in the schedule has not pushed aside the league’s most pressing issues.In Charlotte, a cloud loomed over the festivities, and it came in the shape of a unibrow.Perhaps you have heard? Anthony Davis, the star center for the Pelicans, requested a trade 10 days before the deadline.The Pelicans, though, rejected all trade offers for him and instead hope to reap better players and draft picks in a deal this summer. Last week, Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry called the drama of it all a “dumpster fire.” On Friday, the Pelicans fired their general manager. On Saturday, Davis told reporters that his list of preferred destinations included the Knicks and the Los Angeles Lakers. Hours later, Silver said he would like trade demands and discussions to remain behind closed doors.In any case, the Davis situation only underscored how much the topic of player movement dominates the league — even in the middle of the season, and even after the trade deadline. Everyone here was fixated on what could happen just over four months from now — at the start of free agency.Will Kevin Durant leave the Warriors? Will Kawhi Leonard spurn the Toronto Raptors? Will Kyrie Irving bolt from the Boston Celtics? And, again, what about Davis?“No one likes to see an instance,” Silver said, “where a player is demanding that he be traded when he’s still in the middle of a contractual obligation to a team.”Silver made those remarks, and his wish for private trade discussions, at a news conference before Saturday night’s skills, dunk and 3-point competitions.The media forum, like the carefully coordinated outfits stars wore to events around town, has become part of the event’s routine. So has the roll call of courtside A-listers during the dunk contest; this year’s included the rappers Quavo, 2 Chainz, J. Cole and Gucci Mane.All-Star weekend was not always so structured — or extravagant. Paul Westphal recalled making his first trip to an All-Star Game in 1977 as a guard for the Phoenix Suns. The league hosted a modest dinner. Players received commemorative mugs. Anyone associated with the game stayed at the same hotel in downtown Milwaukee.“It wasn’t like it is now where the game takes over the whole city,” Westphal said.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar missed practice, Westphal said, then showed up about 20 minutes before the start of the game in a fur coat. Westphal helped seal his team’s win with a late steal against Pete Maravich. It was a moment he said he would never forget.This weekend, Westphal was in Charlotte, where he was named a finalist for the Basketball Hall of Fame. He said he was not planning to attend any parties.“Just dinner with friends,” he said.In Charlotte, the streets around the host arena, Spectrum Center, were choked with traffic. Concert fliers hung from every lamppost. And none of the guests, spread among numerous hotels at premium nightly rates, seemed to mind the cold weather as countless lines formed for restaurants, bars and pop-up musical performances.Given all the extracurriculars, it was easy to forget that basketball was the only reason anyone was here in the first place — and perhaps that was because the only legitimate basketball was being played in a college gymnasium a few miles from downtown. A group of elite teenage prospects, without much fanfare, had convened for the league’s annual Basketball Without Borders Global Camp.In all, 63 boys and girls from 31 countries played in front of scouts and executives who hoped to identify the sport’s next batch of stars.“There’s a lot of talent here,” said Brooks Meek, the N.B.A.’s vice president for international basketball operations.The spotlight will find them soon enough.Kevin Draper and Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Tracy, Kevin Draper and Rebecca R. RuizMichael Avenatti, the lawyer best known for representing the pornographic film star Stormy Daniels in her lawsuits against President Trump, arrived in New York on Monday for a negotiating session with Nike executives that he believed could net him millions of dollars.Armed with sensitive information, Mr. Avenatti approached the meeting as though he had the upper hand. He left in the custody of F.B.I. agents.Federal prosecutors in Manhattan filed charges accusing him of trying to extort millions of dollars from the apparel giant in exchange for evidence he said he had of misconduct by company employees in the recruitment of college basketball players.The arrest of Mr. Avenatti, who in a separate case was charged by federal prosecutors in California with bank and wire fraud, was the latest development in a spectacular fall by a lawyer who is known for orbiting and representing an array of celebrities and who has been central to some of the most salacious headlines about Mr. Trump.In court documents filed Monday, prosecutors said that Mr. Avenatti and a client, a basketball coach for a traveling youth team, had threatened a flurry of negative publicity right before a Nike earnings call and the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament. Prosecutors said Mr. Avenatti had told Nike that he and the basketball coach, said to be Gary Franklin Sr. of the club team California Supreme in Los Angeles, had evidence that Nike employees had funneled money to recruits in violation of N.C.A.A. rules.Mr. Franklin could not be reached for comment.The prosecutors said Mr. Avenatti and the coach had threatened to release the evidence in an attempt to damage Nike’s reputation and market capitalization unless the company paid them at least $22.5 million.Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, based in Manhattan, said at a news conference that Mr. Avenatti’s conduct amounted to a “shakedown.”“Avenatti used illegal and extortionate threats for the purpose of obtaining millions of dollars in payments from a public company,” he said. “Calling this anticipated payout a retainer or a settlement doesn’t change what it was — a shakedown. When lawyers use their law licenses as weapons, as a guise to extort payments for themselves, they are no longer acting as attorneys.”Mr. Avenatti was released Monday evening on $300,000 bond and under several conditions, including restrictions on travel. In a brief news conference after his release, Mr. Avenatti said he was “highly confident” that when all the evidence was presented, he would be “fully exonerated, and justice will be done.”A veteran plaintiffs lawyer, Mr. Avenatti rose to fame in March 2018 when he filed a lawsuit against Mr. Trump on behalf of Ms. Daniels, who said that she had an affair with Mr. Trump and then received a hush-money payment leading up to the 2016 election.Mr. Avenatti became a fixture on cable news, leveraging Ms. Daniels’s case to build his own profile as a foil to Mr. Trump. He was even taken half-seriously when he declared that he was interested in making a presidential run in 2020.Ms. Daniels’s suit, which sought to invalidate a nondisclosure agreement, was dismissed by a federal judge in California this month, and a separate defamation suit Mr. Avenatti filed against Mr. Trump on Ms. Daniels’s behalf was dismissed late last year. The discussion about Ms. Daniels, however, has remained a leading sore point for the Trump administration, as checks made out to her with the president’s signature on them were given to Congress last month by his former personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, who has pleaded guilty to federal charges.Last September, Mr. Avenatti inserted himself into the confirmation hearings of Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh. The week before Justice Kavanaugh was confirmed, Mr. Avenatti announced that he had a new client, Julie Swetnick. Ms. Swetnick said that she had witnessed sexual misconduct by Justice Kavanaugh and some of his friends at high school parties in the Washington area in the early 1980s, when she was a college student in Maryland.As Mr. Avenatti’s national profile grew, so did his legal and financial troubles.He was arrested in Los Angeles in November on suspicion of domestic violence, which he called an effort to intimidate him, though he was not charged with a crime. His firm, formerly known as Eagan Avenatti, has repeatedly filed for bankruptcy, most recently on March 7, in Santa Ana, Calif.The charging documents in the Nike case refer to an unnamed co-conspirator, another lawyer who worked with Mr. Avenatti. That lawyer is Mark Geragos, according to people familiar with the matter who requested anonymity, citing the sensitivity of the continuing investigation.Mr. Geragos, a top celebrity lawyer, is best known in the sports world for representing the former quarterback Colin Kaepernick in his collusion case against the N.F.L., which was recently settled. He also played a role in Mr. Kaepernick’s negotiations with Nike over 2017 and 2018, which resulted in Nike’s making Mr. Kaepernick one of its highest paid football endorsers and a face of a new advertising campaign.Mr. Geragos did not respond to phone calls or an email seeking comment. Mr. Berman declined to say why Mr. Geragos had not been arrested. He said the investigation was continuing.Federal officials announced the charges around the same time that Mr. Avenatti, in a post on his Twitter account, announced that he would hold a news conference on Tuesday to accuse Nike of “a major high school/college basketball scandal.” In the past week, he has also privately reached out to reporters, telling them that he had explosive information about a major company.Last year, two former employees of Adidas were among those convicted of fraud for participating in a similar scheme, outlined by prosecutors in the Southern District of New York, in which families of recruits were paid in exchange for their sons’ commitments to college teams sponsored by Adidas.In a statement, Nike said it “will not be extorted or hide information that is relevant to a government investigation. Nike has been cooperating with the government’s investigation into N.C.A.A. basketball for over a year.”Nike said that it had immediately called federal prosecutors when it became aware of the matter and that it had worked with the law firm Boies Schiller Flexner to assist in the investigation.According to people with knowledge of the cases, once Nike heard Mr. Avenatti’s claims, it acted to inform federal officials of the allegation that the company’s employees were paying players. The nature of the discussion with Mr. Avenatti raised the possibility that extortion was taking place.In the case filed in California on Monday, Mr. Avenatti was charged with embezzling from a client and with defrauding a bank by using false tax returns to obtain loans.Nicola T. Hanna, the United States Attorney in Los Angeles, said the two cases were unrelated, but the authorities in California and New York coordinated to arrest Mr. Avenatti and execute search warrants at the same time.In the Nike case, the federal prosecutors said Mr. Avenatti had represented a coach, later identified as Mr. Franklin, whose team recently did not have a contract with Nike renewed, according to the court documents. Mr. Avenatti told Nike that he had evidence that at least three former high school players had been paid by Nike in ways that were intended to be concealed, the documents said.California Supreme had three alumni taken in the 2018 N.B.A. draft, including Deandre Ayton of the Phoenix Suns.Mr. Avenatti, according to prosecutors, threatened that he would hold a news conference when it could maximally disrupt Nike: before its quarterly earnings call last week, which coincided with the start of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament. The tournament is among the biggest annual events on the sports calendar, featuring many prominent teams that are sponsored by Nike, like Duke, North Carolina and Kentucky.Mr. Avenatti said he would refrain from publicizing his evidence if Nike paid $1.5 million to his client, the court documents said, though prosecutors did not name Mr. Franklin. Mr. Avenatti also demanded that Nike hire him and another lawyer to conduct an internal investigation, for billings worth between $15 million and $25 million, court documents said.As an alternative, prosecutors said, Mr. Avenatti said he would accept $22.5 million from Nike for himself and his client in exchange for not releasing the evidence.According to the complaint, Mr. Avenatti told Nike that his client’s information, if publicized, would ultimately lower the value of Nike stock by billions of dollars. He believed that once he went public, parents, coaches and players all across the country would reach out to him with information about payments that violated N.C.A.A. rules.“The company will die — not die, but they are going to incur cut after cut after cut after cut, and that’s what’s going to happen as soon as this thing becomes public,” Mr. Avenatti said in a meeting with Nike lawyers that was recorded for video and audio.Nike, Adidas and Under Armour sponsor dozens of basketball teams for high school players that compete mainly in the summer. The equipment companies shower those teams with tens of thousands of dollars in financing and apparel, and also organize huge tournaments attended by the country’s most prominent college coaches. More than high school basketball, these leagues represent the hub of recruiting for college basketball programs.The 2017 charges of corruption against former Adidas employees and several other figures in college basketball, including assistant coaches at major programs, rocked the sport and prompted the firing of Rick Pitino, the Hall of Fame coach at Louisville. There have been three convictions in the case so far and several guilty pleas.William K. Rashbaum and Katie Benner contributed reporting.Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — About five minutes after hearing Luke Walton had been dismissed as coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, Sacramento Kings general manager Vlade Divac called Walton's agent.Finalizing the deal that brought Walton to Sacramento as the Kings new coach didn't take much longer. After getting the call Friday, Walton changed plans to take some time off and flew to Sacramento the following day instead. He agreed to a deal that afternoon and was formally introduced as coach of the Kings on Monday."I knew these types of offers don't come available very often," Walton said. "I love coaching, so having that opportunity with this type of talented team and doing it alongside somebody the way I feel about Vlade made it too good to pass up on."Divac called Walton one of his basketball "soul mates," who embraces the same philosophies in style of play and building culture on a team. The relationship between the two goes back more than a decade to when they were teammates on the Lakers in 2004-05.Divac had wanted to interview Walton for the opening three years ago before hiring Dave Joerger but never got that chance as Walton took the job with the Lakers instead. He wasn't going to miss his chance again."When I believe in something, I just do it that way," Divac said. "No need to waste time. I knew exactly what I was looking for. When he was available, I just gave him a call."Walton takes over a Kings team that's in a much better position than it was three years ago thanks to progress made under Joerger and key acquisitions made by Divac. Joerger was fired Thursday following a 39-43 campaign that was the best record for the franchise in 13 years.Divac made that move because he felt Joerger wasn't the right coach to take the Kings to the next level and the postseason and hopes that Walton can do that.He inherits an up-and-coming team in Sacramento that features several talented young players acquired by Divac: guards De'Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield, forward Marvin Bagley III and center Willie Cauley-Stein. The Kings finished nine games out of a playoff spot after being tied for the Western Conference's eighth seed heading into the final game before the All-Star break."They play fast, they have 3-point shooting, they're young, they're versatile," Walton said. "That's how I want to play. That's how I think the game should be played. All that is right there with this group. There is still room and need for improvement like with almost every team in this league. What this team could be and what I think this team will be is very exciting from a coaching standpoint."Sacramento had its most wins since going 44-38 in 2005-06 during coach Rick Adelman's final season. That ended a run of eight straight playoff berths and Sacramento hasn't been back to the postseason since for the NBA's longest active drought.Joerger was the ninth coach since Adelman was fired in 2006 and none was able to post a winning record or earn a playoff berth. In fact, since moving to Sacramento before the 1985-86 season, the only winning seasons for the Kings came in Adelman's eight years at the helm, highlighted by a trip to the Western Conference final in 2002.Divac is now counting on Walton to be the one who can get the team back to the level it reached under Adelman, when the Kings were a contender for several years and played an entertaining brand of basketball."Maybe sometimes I'm greedy," Divac said. "We had a great season, don't get me wrong. It was a successful season for us but we can do better. I'm just trying to go to the next level."The 39-year-old Walton was 98-148 in three years with Los Angeles in his first full-time head coaching job. He was 37-45 this season and was unable to make the playoffs even once.Walton also has experience as an assistant for Golden State, helping the Warriors win the 2015 title and then leading the team to a 39-4 record, including 24 straight wins to open the 2015-16 season, as interim coach while Steve Kerr was sidelined following complications from a pair of back surgeries.That performance helped him get the job with the Lakers but he was unable to duplicate that success with a roster with far less talent during his first two years and then again this year, even with LeBron James on board."I learned a lot," Walton said. "The best way to learn in my mind is experience and I had a lot of experiences these last three years. I feel much more prepared and advanced as a coach right now that I did three years ago."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — Sacramento's best season in 13 years wasn't enough to save coach Dave Joerger's job.General manager Vlade Divac fired Joerger on Thursday after he helped develop the young Kings into playoff contenders before ultimately falling short in the franchise's 13th straight losing season."I think he did a great job to make that step," Divac said. "But moving forward, I just felt like we had to go a different direction. It's been three years and we made some progress. This year was a good season but I think we could do more, especially after All-Star break."Divac said he had been contemplating the decision to change coaches for a while and ultimately made it after the team stumbled to the finish with a 9-16 record after the All-Star break. The poor stretch run left Sacramento with a 39-43 record, nine games out of a playoff spot after being tied for the eighth spot in the West heading into the final game before the break.The Kings had their most wins since having a 44-38 record in coach Rick Adelman's final season in 2005-06. That ended a run of eight straight playoff berths and Sacramento hasn't been back to the postseason since for the NBA's longest active drought."After the All-Star break, I felt very confident we'd be in the race and we were in the race," Divac said. "Unfortunately, we fell short."Divac made the move official just hours after he was given an extension through the 2022-23 season by owner Vivek Ranadivé. Divac took over as GM before the 2015-16 season and helped bring in some of the key pieces that have led to the improvement this year, including guards Buddy Hield and De'Aaron Fox and big men Marvin Bagley III, Willie Cauley-Stein and Harry Giles.Divac also made a trade this season to acquire forward Harrison Barnes from Dallas in hopes of making a playoff push but the team faltered down the stretch."Vlade has been vital to what we are building here and I am so pleased to announce his extension," Ranadivé said. "Throughout his entire career, Vlade is someone who has always made those around him better, both on and off the court. I look forward to our bright future ahead."Joerger was the ninth coach since Adelman was fired in 2006 with none able to post a winning record or a playoff berth. In fact, since moving to Sacramento before the 1985-86 season, the only winning seasons for the Kings came in Adelman's eight seasons at the helm highlighted by a trip to the Western Conference final in 2002.Divac is now counting on coach No. 10 being the one that can get the team back to the level it had under Adelman, when the Kings were a contender for several years and played an entertaining brand of basketball."The next level is to be a team that is going to be a playoff team and down the road a contender," Divac said. "I think our kids are very talented. We have to believe in them and give them a chance to take advantage of their work and talent."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressArkansas has hired Nevada's Eric Musselman as its next men's basketball coach.The 54-year-old Musselman led a dramatic turnaround in Reno, leading the Wolf Pack to three NCAA Tournament in four years after a nine-year absence. Nevada reached the Sweet 16 in 2018, but lost in the first round to Florida this year.The son of a former coach, Musselman has had a well-traveled career. He coached the Sacramento Kings and Golden State Warriors in the NBA, had stints in the CBA and D-League, along with assistant jobs in the NBA and college.Razorbacks athletic director Hunter Yurachek announced Musselman's hiring Sunday on Twitter. Musselman replaces Mike Anderson, who was fired last month after eight seasons.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGeneral manager Vlade Divac and the Sacramento Kings agreed to a four-year contract through the 2022-23 season, according to The Athletic.Financial terms were not announced.Divac, who became GM in early 2015, has built a nucleus of promising young players that includes Marvin Bagley III, Buddy Hield, De'Aaron Fox and Bogdan Bogdanovic.The Kings finished 39-43 this season and in ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. That was the Kings' best record since 2005-06 - the last time they qualified for the playoffs.The Kings started 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt, however, until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final spot.Divac, 51, played 16 seasons in the NBA for the Kings, Los Angeles Lakers and Charlotte Hornets. He will be enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in September.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired Thursday after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said. "On behalf of the entire Kings organization, I want to thank Dave for his contributions to our team and I wish him all the best."Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs.The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final spot.Joerger, 45, has six years of NBA head coaching experience, the first three with Memphis (2013-16) and the next three in Sacramento. His overall coaching record is 245-247 and 98-148 with the Kings.His dismissal came on the same day that Divac and the Kings agreed to a four-year contract through the 2022-23 season, according to The Athletic.Divac, who became GM in early 2015, has built a nucleus of promising young players that includes Marvin Bagley III, Buddy Hield, De'Aaron Fox and Bogdan Bogdanovic.Divac, 51, played 16 seasons in the NBA for the Kings, Los Angeles Lakers and Charlotte Hornets. He will be enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in September.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Los Angeles Lakers and coach Luke Walton mutually parted ways on Friday, general manager Rob Pelinka announced in a statement.Walton's status had been tenuous, even before Magic Johnson resigned as president of basketball operations on Tuesday. Lakers owner Jeanie Buss was reportedly ready to OK a departure after previously being fully supportive of Walton."We would like to thank Luke for his dedicated service over the last three years," Pelinka said in a statement. "We wish Luke and his family the best of luck moving forward."Walton compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three seasons."I want to thank Jeanie Buss and the Buss family for giving me the opportunity to coach the Lakers," Walton said in a statement. "This franchise and the city will always be special to me and my family."The Lakers went 37-45 this season in a disappointing first campaign of the LeBron James era.Los Angeles was 20-14 when James suffered a groin injury during a Christmas Day win over the Golden State Warriors and the team's fortunes plummeted from there.Walton may not be unemployed for a long period as the Sacramento Kings are reportedly interested in interviewing him for their opening.The Kings went 39-43 this season and fired coach Dave Joerger. They have an impressive young group led by point guard De'Aaron Fox, shooting guard Buddy Hield and power forward Marvin Bagley III.Among the candidates for the Lakers' post is former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and Philadelphia 76ers assistant coach Monty Williams.Lue coached James for parts of three seasons in Cleveland -- including the franchise's 2016 NBA Finals title -- while Williams coached the New Orleans Pelicans for five seasons.Williams also is reported a candidate for the Sacramento job.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersArkansas has hired Eric Musselman to become its next basketball coach.The 54-year-old Musselman, Nevada's coach since 2015, led the Wolf Pack to the NCAA Tournament in three of his four seasons at the Mountain West school. He previously was the head coach of the Golden State Warriors (2002-04) and Sacramento Kings (2006-07). His combined NBA record is 108-138."Eric Musselman is a coach that has had experience at every level of basketball from the NCAA to the NBA," Arkansas athletic director Hunter Yurachek said in a statement Sunday."He was practically born into the game and his passion for basketball is unmistakable. He has been successful throughout his career, including the remarkable job he did in returning the University of Nevada into a perennial NCAA Tournament team. Coach Musselman is high-energy and possesses an extremely high basketball IQ. He has a great attention to detail and has structured his programs to develop players individually while building a successful team."Musselman's record at Nevada was 110-34 overall and 54-18 in the Mountain West.In his first season, 2015-16, he led a team that won nine games the previous season to the CBI Tournament title, followed by the three NCAA Tournament runs.He took the Wolf Pack to the Sweet 16 in 2018, where they lost to tournament darling Loyola-Chicago, 69-68.This season, the Wolf Pack were ranked as high as No. 5 in the AP Top 25 and finished 29-5 (15-3 MW). Their season ended March 21 in the first round of the NCAA Tournament when the seventh-seeded Wolf Pack lost to No. 10 seed Florida, 70-61.Arkansas last month fired Mike Anderson, who was 169-102 in eight seasons with three NCAA Tournament appearances. The Razorbacks went 18-16 this season.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressD’Angelo Russell flashed some postseason magic, playing like the All-Star leader the Nets needed with 26 points, and Caris LeVert scored 23, leading the visiting Nets to a 111-102 victory on Saturday over the Philadelphia 76ers in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.Jimmy Butler scored 36 points and saved the third-seeded Sixers, favored by many to at least reach the East semifinals, from losing by 25. Joel Embiid slogged his way through 24 minutes on a troubled left knee that cost him much of the final month of the regular season and managed 22 points and 15 rebounds. Ben Simmons came up small against Russell, his high school teammate, who scored 19 second-half points.Russell, LeVert and Spencer Dinwiddie gave the Sixers fits off the dribble and buried open looks from 3-point range, and a team that got hot late and just made the playoffs suddenly has the upper hand on the road over a 51-win team stocked with stars.“I think earlier in the season, especially when we were struggling, we’d lose games like that,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said.With Philadelphia behind by 16 late in the fourth quarter, Amir Johnson was caught by television cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone. Johnson, who was inactive for the game, showed Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid the device into a pocket of his warm-up pants.“I just looked down because he said his daughter was extremely sick and he was checking on her,” Embiid said.Johnson issued an apology after the game, and the Sixers fined him an unspecified amount. It was a fitting episode in a game that the Sixers seemed to have phoned in.Russell hit a string of jumpers in the third quarter, never letting the Sixers seriously chip away at the lead. LeVert’s third 3-pointer in the fourth made it a 16-point game, and there was no looking back for one of the biggest wins since the sixth-seeded Nets moved to Brooklyn.Dinwiddie and DeMarre Carroll made consecutive 3-pointers during a 12-0 first-half run. LeVert hit two straight 3s for a 14-point lead, and the Sixers were soundly booed off the court.“We all got to do a better job,” Embiid said. “Us. The fans. We have to bring the fun.”WARRIORS 121, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 38 points and made eight 3-pointers, reaching the highest total in postseason history, and top-seeded Golden State began its quest for a three-peat by winning at home against Los Angeles on a night when tempers flared.Kevin Durant and Patrick Beverley were ejected with 4 minutes 41 seconds to go, 19 seconds after they received double technicals when Durant stripped Beverley and the Clippers guard fell into the scorer’s table.They both became enraged again, and the official Ed Malloy immediately sent them both to the locker room. Durant high-fived fans as he left.Curry was 8 for 12 from beyond the arc, passing Ray Allen (385) for career postseason 3-pointers with 386.MAGIC 104, RAPTORS 101 D. J. Augustin scored 25 points, including the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 3.5 seconds left, and seventh-seeded Orlando won at second-seeded Toronto in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round series.Kawhi Leonard, who led the Raptors with 25 points, got a final shot but missed the rim with his 3-point attempt from the top. The Raptors are now 2-14 in playoff series openers.WALTON TO COACH KINGS One day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers, Luke Walton reached an agreement on a four-year deal to coach the Sacramento Kings, according to a person familiar with the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Lakers’ president this week in part because he did not want to go through with firing Walton, as had been expected around the N.B.A. for weeks. On Friday, Walton and the Lakers mutually agreed to part ways with two seasons left on his contract — with Walton knowing that the Kings, after firing Coach Dave Joerger on Thursday, were eager to hire him.The Lakers have the former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and the Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams at their top of their list to succeed Walton. Lue coached the Lakers’ LeBron James for two and a half seasons in Cleveland.(MARC STEIN)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLuke Walton will become coach of the Sacramento Kings, securing another NBA head coaching job just a day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers following three losing seasons.The 39-year-old Walton was dismissed by the Lakers on Friday after Los Angeles went 37-45. His move to the Kings was confirmed to The Associated Press on Saturday by a person who spoke on condition of anonymity because it hadn't been finalized. A formal announcement from the Kings is expected in the next couple of days.Sacramento general manager Vlade Divac fired Dave Joerger on Thursday after the coach helped develop the young Kings into playoff contenders before ultimately falling short in the franchise's 13th straight losing season.Also Thursday, the Kings extended Divac's contract through the 2022-23 season — and Walton's deal is expected to run those same four years.Sacramento features several talented young players acquired by Divac: guards De'Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield, forward Marvin Bagley III and center Willie Cauley-Stein. The Kings finished 39-43, nine games out of a playoff spot after being tied for the Western Conference's eighth seed heading into the final game before the All-Star break.Sacramento had its most wins since going 44-38 in 2005-06 during coach Rick Adelman's final season. That ended a run of eight straight playoff berths and Sacramento hasn't been back to the postseason since for the NBA's longest active drought.Walton, a former Lakers forward, went 98-148 after getting his first permanent head coaching job with the 16-time NBA champions. The former Golden State top assistant never led the Lakers to the playoffs, not even after the arrival of LeBron James last summer.He certainly has coached some of the game's biggest stars and egos.Many considered him the unofficial Coach of the Year for his guidance of the then-champion Warriors at the start of the 2015-16 season in place of an ailing Steve Kerr. Golden State began with a record 24-0 start and Walton was 39-4 overall before Kerr returned to the bench following complications from a pair of back surgeries.Walton's departure came three days after the Lakers finished with a loss Tuesday to the Trail Blazers and the abrupt resignation of team president Magic Johnson.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLarry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed Thursday to part ways."We have great respect and appreciation for Larry and the job that he did as the head coach of the Cavaliers for nearly the entire 2018-19 campaign," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "He brought professionalism, class and steady leadership both this past season and prior four years."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role. Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers. All of us in Cleveland wish Larry nothing but the best going forward."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first, before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.Drew, 61, previously was head coach of the Atlanta Hawks (2010-13) and Milwaukee Bucks (2013-14), and joined the Cavaliers initially as an assistant coach in 2014, then as the associate head coach. While there, the Cavaliers won their first NBA title during the 2015-16 season. He has been an assistant coach in the NBA for 23 seasons.Drew went 8-1 as fill-in coach in the 2017-18 season while Lue was on a medical leave to deal with anxiety issues."I want to thank Dan Gilbert, Koby Altman, the entire organization, and especially our fans, for what has been a very special and rewarding time here in Cleveland. Koby and I had a good discussion following the season and have both decided that the best decision for each of us was that I would not return to coach the team," said Drew, who was an NBA point guard from 1980-91, playing for the Detroit Pistons, Kansas City/Sacramento Kings, Los Angeles Clippers and Lakers."I am very proud of what we accomplished over the last several years together and will always cherish our Championship. I also want to commend our players this season for the bond that they established, the way they approached their jobs and the hard work and growth they had every day. I am very proud of them and wish them the best as they continue to develop for the future."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byStars being added to Eastern Conference powerhouses drew most of the headlines, but there were other moves that could prove significant.By Benjamin HoffmanN.B.A. fans can be forgiven for being distracted by shiny objects. And there are few objects shinier than a star who is being added to a playoff contender.But even though the powerhouses of the Eastern Conference went to war over which team could add the biggest piece, it is worth taking a look at some under-the-radar moves that could prove significant this season or in the near future. Amid the flurry of moves this week, these three deals stood out as opportunities for players to thrive in situations far more advantageous to their careers than where they had been, which could end up paying significant dividends to the teams that acquired them.The Magic are trading Jonathon Simmons, a first-round pick and a second-round pick to the Philadelphia 76ers for Fultz, according to The Athletic.Why it matters: The very public breakdown of Fultz’s career has made any move involving him relevant. A consensus No. 1 pick in the 2017 draft after a terrific freshman season at Washington, Fultz was viewed by Philadelphia as the endgame of the team’s long-running Process. The Sixers traded the No. 3 pick in that draft (which ended up being Jayson Tatum) and a future first-round pick (likely to be Sacramento’s pick in this year’s draft) to Boston so they could move up two spots to get him.Things fell apart almost immediately. Fultz’s shooting form went from quirky to horrendous, debates emerged as to whether he had been injured or had simply lost his confidence, and he played just 14 games last season and 19 this season before shutting down with a diagnosis of thoracic outlet syndrome.No one knows what Fultz is capable of, but it had become painfully obvious that he was not going to have the opportunity to play his way through his problems with the Sixers, a team that believes it has a legitimate chance of winning the East this year.In Orlando, the pressure should be turned down considerably. The team values length, and while Fultz is a modest 6-foot-4, he has a seven-foot wingspan and has at times shown flashes of brilliance, including during a game last April in which he became the first teenager to officially record a triple-double in the N.B.A.In this week’s trade, Philadelphia managed to land a few picks to replace what it gave up to be able to draft Fultz. But Simmons is primarily filler to make the trade work, and the move is mostly about clearing an unproductive player off the Sixers’ roster and letting him try to find a better situation elsewhere. As Fultz looks to avoid joining Anthony Bennett and LaRue Martin as the biggest busts to be taken with the No. 1 overall pick, Orlando seems as good of a place as any to get started.The Kings traded Justin Jackson and Zach Randolph to the Dallas Mavericks for Barnes.Why it matters: The Kings entered Thursday night’s games as the No. 9 seed in the West, one and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers and one game ahead of the Los Angeles Lakers. With the Clippers having just traded Tobias Harris, the door is open for Sacramento to secure its first playoff spot since 2006.Sacramento plays extraordinarily fast, partly as a result of repeatedly using lineups with three guards, but they play at a significant size disadvantage.Enter Barnes, a 6-8 small forward who gives the team a bigger body without requiring the offense to slow down all that much.It’s hard to remember after three productive-if-uninspiring seasons in Dallas, but Barnes was once a member of Golden State’s ultrafluid Death Lineup, and if he can get back to a 3-and-D style of play, he could be a perfect addition to the Kings’ starting five, though that does not mean the deal is without drawbacks.First and foremost, Barnes has been used to a high-usage role in Dallas, and that will not be available to him in Sacramento, a team with an offensive pecking order that will make him a third option at best. He also has let his defense slide to the point where he was a net negative on the court for Dallas. The Kings will probably be on the hook for his $25.1 million player option next year, and if he isn’t on board to shift his style of play, he could make the team worse.All of that said, Barnes is still just 26, and after winning a championship in his third season, and 73 regular-season games in his fourth year, he has not sniffed the playoffs since. A return to a relevant team could unlock the complementary player who helped Golden State soar, and for a franchise that has often been accused of sabotaging itself, this is a real attempt to make the team better.The Bulls traded Jabari Parker and Bobby Portis to the Washington Wizards for Porter. Why it matters: Neither team is going anywhere this season, but Chicago is trying to set up the team’s future by acquiring Porter, a player with loads of potential — and an enormous contract — who has sometimes failed to click in Washington.Porter, a 25-year-old forward who has plenty of size at 6-8, has seen his statistics decline this season, at least in part because of the overall decline of the Wizards. But at his best, he is capable of shooting better than 40 percent from 3-point range while also contributing rebounding and passing. For an example of why Chicago would take a flier on a frustrating player owed a great deal of money, look no further than one of the players he was traded for: Parker. Last off-season, the Bulls had money to spend and wanted to make a free-agent splash. Parker, a player known as much for being injury prone as for being defense-averse, was the best they could do. In Porter they pick up a young player with plenty of potential who is owed a little more than $27 million next season and has a player option of a bit less than $28.5 million in 2020-21. That is probably better than what Chicago could get on the open market, which makes it worth saying goodbye to Portis, a decent rotation player who was mostly wasted on a team that is several big pieces away from contention.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherMike Bibby, the former N.B.A. player, is being investigated by the police over accusations of sexual abuse.Mr. Bibby, now a high school basketball coach in Arizona, was accused by a teacher who works at the same school, The Arizona Republic reported. The episode that prompted the accusations was said to have taken place in 2017.The Republic, citing a restraining order granted last week, said that Mr. Bibby had been accused of grabbing the teacher by the waist and pulling her into a car, then groping her and rubbing his genitals on her. After the woman left the car, the order said, he followed her and made sexual remarks. The woman said she did not know Mr. Bibby before the incident.The restraining order quoted the teacher as saying she was “in shock, in fear, intimidated by his actions, afraid of him as he smelled of alcohol.”A lawyer for Mr. Bibby denied the accusations.“I can say with pretty much certainty this alleged incident didn’t happen and that will be shown down the road,” Donald Harris, Mr. Bibby’s lawyer, told The Republic. “Michael Bibby did not participate in a sexual assault of any way, shape or form that was alleged by this lady two years ago.”Mr. Bibby recently coached the boys’ basketball team to a fourth straight state championship at the school, Shadow Mountain High in Phoenix. He is also an alumnus of Shadow Mountain, and won a state championship as a player in the 1990s before attending the University of Arizona, where he won a national championship in 1997. He retired from the N.B.A. in 2012 after a 14-year career with six teams, most notably the Vancouver Grizzlies, Sacramento Kings and Atlanta Hawks. He spent his last season with the Knicks, playing 39 games after signing as a free agent in December 2011.For the past two summers, Mr. Bibby, 40, played with the Ghost Ballers of the Big3, a professional 3-on-3 basketball league founded by the rapper Ice Cube.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — Ian Clark scored 31 points with a career-best seven 3-pointers, Elfrid Payton had 12 of his 25 points in the final 3½ minutes and the New Orleans Pelicans beat the Sacramento Kings 133-129 on Sunday night.Jahlil Okafor added 23 points and 14 rebounds, Solomon Hill had 13 points and Kenrich Williams scored 12 to help the Pelicans stop a three-game skid while beating the Kings for the third time in four meetings this season.Harrison Barnes scored 29 points for Sacramento in its final home game. De'Aaron Fox added 24 points and 11 assists, while Marvin Bagley had 19 points and 14 rebounds.New Orleans led by 16 in the third quarter but Sacramento came back to tie it, then went up 117-115 midway through the fourth.Bogdan Bogdanovic and Barnes made consecutive 3s to put the Kings ahead 123-121. Payton then scored on a short jumper and made a 3-pointer.The Pelicans led 132-126 following a pair of free throws by Payton with 26.5 seconds remaining. Bogdanovic made another 3 but later airballed an attempt from beyond the arc. Buddy Hield also missed a late 3-pointer for the Kings.Hield finished with 12 points and made two 3s, giving him 599 in his first three NBA seasons. That matches the mark set by Portland's Damian Lillard.By taking three of four from Sacramento, the Pelicans prevented the Kings from celebrating their first 40-win season at home since 2005-06. Sacramento (39-42) can still reach 40 wins by beating Portland on the road Wednesday.The Kings got off to a good start but couldn't hold off the Pelicans in the second half.Nemanja Bjelica was perfect on five shots in the first quarter and had 12 points. Fox added 10 to help offset four 3s by Clark in the opening period.The Kings led by 14 before Clark led a late charge in the second quarter to pull the Pelicans to 68-66.TIP-INSPelicans: With Julius Randle getting the night off for rest, New Orleans was left with a three-man bench. Christian Wood started in place of Randle.Kings: Bagley's double-double was his 19th this season. . Coach Dave Joerger picked up a technical foul at the end of the third, his eighth this season. . Sacramento closed the third quarter on a 22-6 run, not long after allowing the Pelicans to go on a 20-5 spurt.UP NEXTPelicans: Play at Golden State on Tuesday.Kings: End the season at Portland on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — A flight was awaiting Miami Heat President Pat Riley on Saturday, just as he hoped.It just wasn't to Toronto or Milwaukee for Game 1 of a playoff series. That's the problem.Riley's second home in Malibu, California, is one of his happy places — though with the NBA playoffs starting this weekend, Malibu is about the last place he wants be right now. The playoffs aren't on Riley's calendar this season, so he's taking 10 blue notebooks to Malibu and plans to fill them with ideas on how to make sure that's not the case in 2020."I'm going to write and write and write and write," Riley said. "That's where we are for the next couple of weeks. Once the hangover subsides, then we'll have more coherent thought."A challenging offseason awaits the Heat, who went 39-43 this season and will return for training camp in about five months without Dwyane Wade — probably their best player this season, and at times certainly their most important player. Wade is retiring, and if the Heat have plans to remake their roster before next season they'll likely need some willing trade partners to make things happen.Miami already has players signed to about $140 million worth of deals for next season. Flexibility is not something Riley figures to have much of when its time to wheel and deal on the trade and free-agent markets."Very, very disappointed. I'm disappointed in myself. Obviously," Riley said Saturday, as he sat alone on a stage set up on the Heat practice court — one that figures to not be in much use for the next couple weeks while players rest and recover. "This has not come together the way that I thought it would. I thought this year that we would be in the top half of the Eastern Conference."The Heat finished 10th in the East. They beat 13 of the 16 playoff-bound teams — the only ones who swept Miami were Denver (2-0), Indiana (3-0) and Toronto (4-0). But the Heat also lost at least once to nine of the 13 other teams that didn't make the playoffs — going 1-3 against Atlanta, plus 0-2 against the Los Angeles Lakers, Sacramento Kings and Minnesota Timberwolves."There's going to be changes next year," Riley said. "Not a new culture, but tightening the screws on a culture that sometimes erodes just a little bit."Riley said the team is a long way from personnel decisions and draft strategy. The Heat want Dion Waiters slimmer and believe his game would explode if he got into world-class condition. They're still — in what seems like an annual occurrence now — figuring out how best to use Hassan Whiteside, who has a $27.1 million player option for next season. They believe James Johnson will be better. They hope Udonis Haslem returns for a 17th season.But one thing that Riley knows must change is the home record. Miami was awful at home this year, going 19-22. Only five teams were worse, and Riley was bothered by the Heat penchant for getting big leads and then letting them slip away."The last thing I want to do is send our fans into the beautiful night of Miami, cheering like crazy in the first half with a 20-point lead and leaving with a one-point loss," Riley said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSpeaking to local media around midday Thursday, Memphis Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said he hadn't talked with team owner Robert Pera yet, but he could make one declaration: Head coach J.B. Bickerstaff would return for a second season. Two hours later, that decision had changed, and several other moves were made.The Grizzlies fired Bickerstaff and demoted Wallace to a scouting role.Memphis also named Jason Wexler as team president with "oversight of both business and basketball operations," the team said in a statement. The Grizzlies promoted Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations, with former VP John Hollinger reassigned to a senior advisory position."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a reenergized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."--Sacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said.Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs. The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final postseason spot in the West.--Larry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed to part ways."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.--Cardiologists have cleared Chicago Bulls forward Lauri Markkanen to resume full basketball activities, the team announced.Markkanen, 21, experienced extreme fatigue and an accelerated heart rate during a game in Toronto on March 26. A battery of tests conducted at Chicago's Rush University Medical Center and Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore determined that dehydration and nutrient deficiency caused his symptoms.The 7-footer missed the rest of the regular season, finishing his second campaign with averages of 18.7 points and 9.0 rebounds in 52 games.--The Phoenix Suns officially named James Jones as general manager, giving him control over all basketball operations for the team.The Suns also added Jeff Bower as senior vice president of basketball operations and retained Trevor Bukstein as assistant general manager. Both will report to Jones, the team announced in a statement.Jones, 38, who played 14 seasons in the league and won three NBA championships, had served as Phoenix's VP of basketball operations the past two seasons. He shared GM duties this past season with Bukstein.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a career-high 37 points in his first start of the season and the Portland Trail Blazers secured the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference with a dramatic 136-131 victory over the Sacramento Kings using just six players Wednesday night.The Blazers have won 14 of 17 games en route to their sixth straight trip to the playoffs. Portland will open the postseason against the Oklahoma City Thunder, who finished in sixth.Portland had already clinched homecourt advantage in the opening round with a 104-101 victory over the Los Angeles Lakers the night before.Denver beat the Timberwolves 99-95 Wednesday night, locking the Nuggets into the No. 2 seed and a first-round series against San Antonio, and giving Portland the opening to claim the third seed. The Jazz secured the No. 4 seed and will play fifth-seeded Houston.Portland trailed by 28 points during the second half but made it interesting in the fourth quarter by closing within 117-116 with 7:53 left on Simon's 3-pointer. Simons found Jake Layman for an alley-oop dunk to pull the Blazers in front.Portland pushed the lead to 128-119 on Layman's basket with 2:49 left. Simons hit his seventh 3-pointer to make it 131-123 with just over two minutes left and Sacramento couldn't catch up.Marvin Bagley III had 20 points to lead the Kings, who lost their 11th straight game in Portland.Blazers coach Terry Stotts said before the game that guard CJ McCollum would rest because it was the second of a back-to-back. McCollum missed 10 games with a left knee injury and had just been back for Portland's last two games.As for his other players, Stotts said going in that it was "fluid." Damian Lillard was available but did not play. Neither did any of the team's other regular starters, as Stotts went with Skal Labissiere, Layman, Meyers Leonard, Gary Trent, Jr. and Simons. Trent, Simons and Labissiere were making their first starts of the season."Our goal was to get homecourt, which we got. Whatever happens tonight, happens," Stotts said. "If you overthink it, you get in trouble."The Kings' season is over, but coach Dave Joerger said he was encouraged."We haven't been great for the last couple of weeks, but I don't want that to dull the shine on what has been a terrific season of development and competitiveness, and competitive spirit, of laying down a foundation and an identity, a lot of success and a lot of good moments," Joerger said. "I feel good about that, and I feel good about where we can be in the future."The Kings stayed with their regular starters and went up by 11 points in the opening quarter. They extended the lead to 26 points during the second and were up 87-62 at the break. Da'Aaron Fox led the Kings with 17 points and nine assists at halftime.Joerger went to his reserves in the second half.TIP-INSKings: Joerger was asked before the game why the Kings had not won in Portland since 2012. He replied: "LaMarcus Aldridge, Damian Lillard, CJ McCollum, Wesley Matthews."Trail Blazers: Sacramento's 87 first-half points were the most Portland had allowed in the half this season. ... Simons became just the 11th rookie in franchise history to have a 30-point game.UP NEXTSacramento's season is over.The Trail Blazers will face the Oklahoma City Thunder in a game TBD.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherJames L. Dolan, the owner of the Knicks, took exception to a fan at Madison Square Garden who suggested that he sell the team. Dolan’s response: threatening to bar the fan from future games.In a video released by TMZ, Dolan is seen leaving the courtside area late in the Knicks’ loss to the Sacramento Kings on Saturday. A fan yells from off camera, “Sell the team.”Dolan stops quickly and responds, “You think I should sell the team?” and beckons the fan to come nearer. “You want to not come to any more games?”“Why?” the fan asks.“That’s rude,” Dolan says.“It’s an opinion,” the fan contends.“No, it’s not an opinion, and you know what? Enjoy watching them on TV,” Dolan says. He walks away and seems to signal with his eyes to guards, and then some assistants call out, “Hold him,” apparently in reference to the fan.It was not clear if any fan was actually banned. The Madison Square Garden company said in a statement, “Our policy is and will continue to be that if you are disrespectful to anyone in our venues, we will ask you not to return.”The Knicks have had a lot of bad seasons recently — five years without a playoff appearance. But this season has been particularly ugly, with the team, at 13-54, possessing the worst record in the league. A rare Knicks victory on the night of the Academy Awards was so noteworthy that Samuel L. Jackson publicly alerted the Knicks superfan Spike Lee, seated in the audience, about it.The team has occasionally seemed to lash out at criticism. At the end of December, the Knicks invited reporters to a news conference with Steve Mills, the team president, but the team failed to notify The Daily News, presumably because of its coverage of the team’s dismal season. A Daily News back page had encouraged Dolan to sell the team. The headline read: “DO IT! According to a report, James Dolan, who’s sick of being berated by fans, won’t rule out selling Knicks … or Rangers.”Last year he also struck back at the radio station WFAN after a host, Maggie Gray, sharply criticized him. In response, he barred his employees from doing any business with WFAN and other stations run by its parent company, Entercom.Dolan has also had several run-ins in and around the Garden. Two seasons ago, he got into a verbal altercation with a fan outside the arena, a dispute that also began with a recommendation that he sell the team.Charles Oakley, a beloved former star, was handcuffed and ejected from the Garden the same season. Oakley, who had been critical of Dolan, said security guards asked him why he was sitting near Dolan. The team claimed Oakley had acted abusively, and Dolan said on a radio show, without providing evidence, that Oakley might have had an alcohol problem.As a result of the team’s struggles, and his own missteps, Dolan is a frequent target of disdain from Knicks fans, and a good percentage of them might agree with the anonymous fan on the TMZ video imploring him to sell. Many fans gave up on 2018-19 long ago and instead are looking ahead to next season, with the hope that the team will land the No. 1 draft pick or perhaps sign a marquee free agent or two. But for now, no change at the top of the Knicks is on the horizon.Kelly Whiteside contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressChris Mullin stepped down as the men’s basketball coach at St. John’s on Tuesday after four years on the job, citing a personal loss.Mike Cragg, the St. John’s athletic director, announced the decision, saying the team had “progressed well” and noting Mullin’s “deep passion for this program.” Cragg did not give an explanation for the move.Without elaborating, Mullin said in a separate statement that he had suffered a “recent personal loss.” His older brother, Roddy, a former Siena basketball player, died last month at 58 after battling cancer for years.Mullin, 55, had two years remaining on his contract, and he had just completed his only winning season and only trip to the N.C.A.A. tournament as the St. John’s coach, losing to Arizona State in the First Four.Mullin, the greatest player in St. John’s history, said his decision had been extremely emotional.“I took time to reflect upon my true values and believe this is the right time to make a change,” Mullin said in the statement. “I am extremely grateful to the administration, which has supported me and our basketball program on every level.”Cragg said St. John’s would pursue an experienced coach “committed to building a championship-level program” and “ready to build upon the recent successes of our program with integrity by recruiting young men of high character.”Bobby Hurley, a New Jersey native who is Arizona State’s coach, is reportedly considered a top candidate to replace Mullin. Hurley was a star point guard at Duke, where Cragg spent more than three decades as an administrator before being hired by St. John’s in September.The Red Storm went 59-73 under Mullin, including 20-52 in the Big East Conference, after he replaced Steve Lavin in March 2015 and embarked on a substantial rebuild.Bobby Gempesaw, the president of St. John’s, said that because of Mullin the “university community has grown closer, there has been excitement throughout campus.”Led by guard Shamorie Ponds and several talented transfers, the Red Storm won their first 12 games this past season for their best start since 1982-83, when Mullin was a sophomore. They cracked The Associated Press Top 25 poll for the first time in four years but faded down the stretch, losing five of their final six games and six of the last eight to finish at 21-13.Once a national power, the St. John’s program has not won an N.C.A.A. tournament game since 2000.After the season-ending loss to Arizona State, Ponds announced that he would pass up his senior season to enter the N.B.A. draft. Also the team’s top recruiter, Matt Abdelmassih, left for a job at Nebraska, and Cam Mack, a junior college point guard, asked to be released from the national letter of intent he had signed with St. John’s.Mullin, a two-time Olympic gold medalist and a member of the Basketball Hall of Fame, led St. John’s to the 1985 Final Four and remains the school’s career scoring leader. Born in Brooklyn, he was a five-time All-Star during his 16 seasons in the N.B.A., with the Golden State Warriors and the Indiana Pacers.Before taking the job at his alma mater to much fanfare, Mullin had no head coaching experience. He had been an N.B.A. executive, serving as general manager of the Warriors and a special adviser with the Sacramento Kings. His coaching tenure was highlighted by consecutive victories over top-five teams in February 2018: Duke and No. 1 Villanova, the eventual national champion.St. John’s still ranks among the top 10 N.C.A.A. Division I men’s teams in wins, though the school has not advanced beyond the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament since 2000.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Vast upheaval within the Los Angeles Lakers organization continued on Friday afternoon when the team announced that Luke Walton was stepping down as coach.The Lakers said in a statement that Walton and the team had “mutually agreed to part ways,” without elaborating. The news came three days after Magic Johnson, the team’s president for basketball operations, made the surprise announcement that he was resigning so he could devote more time to his business interests.Walton, 39, was in his third season with the Lakers, who were expected to vie for a playoff spot after signing LeBron James, a four-time N.B.A. most valuable player, to a four-year, $154 million contract last July. Instead, the Lakers scuffled to a 37-45 record after months of general dysfunction and momentum-sapping injuries. They finished 10th in the Western Conference, well out of playoff position.The N.B.A.’s postseason will start Saturday but without the Lakers, whose postseason drought is now at six seasons. Not even the celebrated addition of James could salvage this one, but he missed significant time with a groin injury. And even when he was on the court, he appeared detached from his teammates as weeks of misery mounted.The Lakers are fraught with problems. When Johnson announced that he was quitting this week, he indicated that he had been planning to fire Walton and that he had the support of Jeanie Buss, the team’s controlling owner, to go forward with the move. But then Johnson resigned — in part, he said, because he could not go through with affecting someone’s “livelihood.”Hours later, after the Lakers had closed out their season with a loss to the Portland Trail Blazers, Walton said that he was looking forward to an eventful summer with the team in hopes of making improvements. Now he is gone, too, though he may not be unemployed for long.The Sacramento Kings immediately responded to Friday’s news by reaching out to Walton’s representatives to arrange an interview for their coaching vacancy, according to two people familiar with Sacramento’s plans who were not authorized to discuss them publicly. Walton is considered the front-runner to replace Dave Joerger, whom the Kings fired this week.Steve Kerr, the coach of the Golden State Warriors, expressed his support for Walton, one of his former assistants.“In this job, as a coach in the N.B.A., you are 100 percent dependent on your circumstances: the strength of your organization, the momentum, unity,” Kerr told reporters in Oakland, Calif. “Everything has to be in good order, because if it’s not, as we have witnessed with the Lakers, then there’s going to be casualties, and usually the coach is the first one.”He added: “They’re losing one of the best humans in the N.B.A. They’re losing a guy who knows the game as well as anybody I’ve met. They’re losing somebody who players believe in.”Walton, the son of the Hall of Fame center Bill Walton, was working with an ill-conceived roster that lacked depth, defense and perimeter shooting. Still, the pressure was on him before the season even began. Once the Lakers got off to a slow start, Johnson chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting, raising speculation that Walton was already on the hot seat.Questions about Walton’s job security persisted throughout the season as he shuffled rotations and lineups, searching for solutions that never materialized.Walton refused to make excuses — publicly, he was a voice of unwavering optimism amid a sea of discontent — but it hardly helped that the Lakers were troubled by injuries, especially at point guard.Then there was James, who had been incredibly durable in his 16-year career. But during the Lakers’ Christmas Day game against the Warriors, he limped off the court with a strained groin and missed the next 17 games. Without him, the Lakers struggled. The hope was that they could regain their footing once he returned, but he was not the cure-all anyone imagined. The Lakers continued to lose with James back in the lineup, even though he said he had “activated” himself for a playoff push.It had become clear by then, however, that the Lakers did not have any discernible chemistry, especially after Johnson and Rob Pelinka, their general manager, tried and failed to acquire the All-Star center Anthony Davis from the New Orleans Pelicans ahead of February’s trade deadline. (It was no coincidence, perhaps, that Davis and James shared an agent, Rich Paul.) The Lakers were willing to send the Pelicans several of their promising young players, including Kyle Kuzma, Brandon Ingram and Lonzo Ball, but were rebuffed in their attempts to swing a blockbuster deal.The result was a team that seemed distracted at best and fractured at worst. Before long, the Lakers were officially eliminated from playoff contention. James did not dress for the final six games of the season.Walton, who spent most of his 10-year N.B.A. playing career with the Lakers, winning two championships as a reserve forward, was hired as their coach in 2016 after two seasons as an assistant with the Warriors. In 2015-16, he began the season as the Warriors’ interim coach while Kerr recovered from debilitating back issues, and guided the team to a 39-4 record, which included a league-record 24 straight wins to start the season.It was certainly an achievement, but the Warriors were coming off a championship and primed to excel. With the Lakers, Walton was trying to build something. Now, that vast project — however onerous — will continue without him.Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — To celebrate their first home win in 25 days, the Lakers on Sunday dropped streamers that had been collecting dust from the ceiling at Staples Center. The final lineup of the night included Alex Caruso, a 25-year-old guard who spent most of the season in the N.B.A.’s developmental G League.Caruso knows things were not supposed to be this way. His mere presence — in a crunchtime situation, no less — was a vivid sign that the season had gone sideways for the Lakers, who will be watching the playoffs from various vacation destinations.Caruso also knows that the Lakers are playing fairly meaningless games, including Sunday’s 111-106 victory over the Sacramento Kings. The Lakers (32-41) have nine more of these to go, starting Tuesday against the Washington Wizards. The buzz of LeBron James’s first season as a Laker is gone. The roster will be overhauled again this summer as the franchise, which has not been to the playoffs since 2013, rummages for solutions.“But for me,” Caruso said, “these games are really meaningful.”The Lakers are searching for motivation wherever they can find it, especially as they head toward an off-season of uncertainty. Coach Luke Walton’s job status is tenuous at best, and 10 players on the current roster do not have guaranteed deals for next season. Some of them, like Caruso, are trying to showcase their skills in hopes of acquiring N.B.A. work next season.“I think this little stretch has been really good,” Caruso said, “because it’s finally allowed me to put all that work I’ve put in over the last two years and show how much I’ve evolved as a player. That I’m gaining confidence and making strides to get better and better.” In 16 appearances for the Lakers this season, Caruso has shot 44.6 percent from the field, averaging 6 points and 2.2 rebounds.Even players who figure to be a part of the franchise’s future are focusing on personal growth. A team is always a collection of individuals, but the Lakers’ late-season emphasis on “me” is particularly understandable.“I need to use these games to develop myself and play with the ball more,” the second-year forward Kyle Kuzma said recently.The Lakers were not yet mathematically eliminated from playoff contention when they lost to the Knicks at Madison Square Garden on March 17 — that would happen five days later — but Kuzma stood by his locker in a red leather jumpsuit after the game and spoke about the immediate future.“I’m just trying to use these last 13, 14 games — whatever we have — to just try to develop good habits,” he said. “Season’s pretty much over, so that’s the only thing I can really do. Everyone knows I’m a good scorer and I can do that. I’m just trying to complete my game.”Then there are the injured players who have largely disappeared from view: Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram, Josh Hart. For them, the end of this season is about rehabbing for the next one.After all the losses, injuries and general dysfunction, Walton continues to preach the importance of team play. Same as ever.“It starts with our effort and how we play and how we compete,” he said. “And our guys have been doing a nice job of that, even though we haven’t been winning games. Whatever lineups we’ve been putting out there, they’re giving what they have. So that’s the No. 1 thing.”As for James, these are his first truly inconsequential games since his rookie season with the Cleveland Cavaliers, who finished well out of playoff contention. But even then, he could use the end of the season as an opportunity to hone his abilities and gain experience for future endeavors — such as eight consecutive trips to the N.B.A. Finals.So it is a credit to James, even as the grease fire of his first season with the Lakers smolders, that he is out there — trying. Against the Kings, he finished with his 81st career triple-double: 29 points, 11 assists, 11 rebounds. How does he sustain the motivation?“If he’s out there on the court, he’s going to give what he has,” Walton said. “That’s probably a better question for him, but I’m getting to know him, and that’s the type of person he is: He respects and loves the game. So if he’s going to play, he’s going to give what he has.”James said he appreciated the fans who continued to show up. He also said he owed it to himself to play with genuine effort.“I’ve always respected the basketball gods,” James said, “and if I’m on the floor, I got to try to play as hard as I can or do something to affect the game and not cheat the game.”Still, times have changed for the Lakers, who have not been to the playoffs since 2013. Before that, they routinely fixated on the Western Conference standings and the number of wins they would need to make the playoffs. Now, the most important number in their universe is 3 percent — as in, their odds of winning the N.B.A. draft lottery.Then again, the Lakers are not the only team that has so little at stake at this stage of the season. Look no further than the Kings, whose push for a playoff berth has deteriorated in recent weeks. Before Sunday’s game, Coach Dave Joerger held a brief news conference. No one had much to ask.“I can give you some more stuff,” he said. “I mean, it’s sunny out. It’s spring. It smells like March Madness, Lent and the N.B.A. playoffs. Get the seedings, get it done. Exciting times.”He paused again.“Nothing else?” he asked.Nothing else.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Rajon Rondo has had a difficult time for the Lakers. He was suspended after brawling with the Houston Rockets in the second game of the season. He proceeded to mangle his right hand not just once, but twice, requiring surgery both times while missing a total of 31 games. And in recent weeks, he has been coming off the bench for Coach Luke Walton, even as Lonzo Ball, who had been starting at point guard, continues to recover from an ankle injury.Rondo, a 13-year pro, was supposed to be an invaluable presence for the Lakers, who had otherwise surrounded LeBron James in Year 1 of the West Coast LeBron era with a cast of unproven (if promising) players and a hodgepodge of reclamation projects. Nobody thought this team would vie for a championship, but the road has been rougher than expected.In the wake of a recent two-game road trip to New Orleans and Memphis that resulted in two deflating losses and the very real sense that the Lakers could miss the playoffs, Walton approached Rondo for a quiet conversation. Walton wanted to put him back in the starting lineup for Wednesday’s game against the Pelicans, and Rondo was on board with the plan.After all, what did the Lakers have to lose? Aside from losing another game that they desperately needed to win.“We sat there and talked,” Walton said. “He’s been fine with his role. He wants to play more — everyone wants to play more. But he hasn’t been complaining or anything like that. But our conversation was one of: ‘Let’s talk about what we need to do. How do we get back on track?’ It was an honest conversation. It was healthy and positive.”As far as confidence-building exercises go, the Lakers’ subsequent 125-119 victory over the Pelicans was not necessarily Grade A material. The Pelicans have their own issues, and their star center Anthony Davis, who had hoped to be playing for the Lakers after this month’s trade deadline, was on a strict minutes limit as the Pelicans eye a summer sweepstakes for his services. (They would like to keep his limbs intact in the meantime.)But Walton’s favorite verb after the game was “need,” as in the Lakers needed the win and needed some positive vibes.Sure enough, Rondo helped a great deal, finishing with 16 assists, 11 points and 7 rebounds in 37 minutes.“I’m very confident in what Rondo has done in this league,” Walton said. “He’s struggled a little bit, but some of that’s on me. His minutes have been down. We’ve been trying to find different groups to work. But he’s proven over his career that when he gets an opportunity, he shows up to play.”Rondo was not particularly adept from the perimeter, shooting 5 of 15 from the field, and Davis feasted on the Lakers’ smaller lineup when he was on the court. Walton knows those could be more pressing issues against better teams. But for one night, the Lakers (30-31) allowed themselves to savor some hard-earned momentum — because it might not last.The Lakers, who have been hindered this season by injuries and trade-deadline intrigue, are not a great basketball team. The question is whether they are merely mediocre, with a chance of still making the playoffs, or not very good at all, in which case they will have wasted their first year with James on the roster.It hardly helps that the Lakers have one of the league’s most difficult schedules the rest of the way, starting Friday when they host the Milwaukee Bucks, who improved to 47-14 on Wednesday with a win against the Sacramento Kings. The Lakers’ coming schedule also includes meetings with playoff-bound teams like the Denver Nuggets and the Toronto Raptors.“Every day is going to be its own challenge,” James said, adding: “Just try to stay positive throughout whatever’s going on.”Rondo had experienced his own set of challenges ahead of Wednesday’s game. He was coming off a pair of dreadful performances during the team’s recent two-game trip, averaging 4.5 points and 2 assists off the bench while shooting 36.4 percent from the field. He was a nonfactor, or perhaps even a net negative.“I didn’t have the rhythm on both ends of the floor,” Rondo said. “That’s why we have 82 games. You have the opportunity to play again and redeem yourself.”At Wednesday’s shootaround, center Tyson Chandler kept yelling, “energy, energy, energy,” Rondo said. And during the game itself, the players focused on their body language — lots of hugs and high-fives — in addition to actually playing some defense for a change. Walton was also pleased that the Lakers had 37 assists to go with just eight turnovers.“It’s a lot of fun when your guys are playing like that,” he said.Forget that the Pelicans are struggling. Forget that James needed to sink a fadeaway 3-pointer from the corner with 31.3 seconds left to seal the win and sidestep disaster. Forget that Julius Randle, a center the Lakers let walk in free agency last summer, torched his old team for 35 points in the loss.Forget all this until Friday, when Rondo and the rest of the Lakers are sure to face an even stiffer challenge.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaSACRAMENTO — The Boston Celtics were not in a good place when they boarded a plane bound for California on Sunday. They were coming off a home loss to the Houston Rockets that point guard Kyrie Irving punctuated by using a total of 43 words to answer nine questions in his postgame news conference.At one point, he was asked whether he thought the team could cobble together some momentum on its West Coast trip.“We’ll see,” he whispered.Just one season removed from a run to the N.B.A.’s Eastern Conference finals, and seemingly improved by the re-addition of Gordon Hayward and the continued development of their young core, the Celtics were on the brink of falling apart. Any hope they still harbored of being a championship-ready team was as brittle as a toothpick.But after some reflection and conversation, the Celtics regained a bit of their swagger with back-to-back wins this week against the Golden State Warriors and the Sacramento Kings. The Celtics will see if they can keep the good vibes going on Saturday against the Los Angeles Lakers, which is anything but certain, especially for Irving, whose season has been clouded by questions about his future with the team.Such uncertainty does not make Irving unique in the modern N.B.A. — Kevin Durant of the Warriors and Kawhi Leonard of the Toronto Raptors are among the other stars who will weigh big decisions in free agency this summer — but the Celtics have let the noise affect them.With the two wins this week improving their record to 40-26, the Celtics may be showing signs that they are finally, mercifully, learning how to cope.“That long plane ride helped us out,” Irving said after Tuesday’s lopsided victory over the Warriors. “I’ll just say that. We needed it. We needed it. We were going to get to a point where we were just going to get tired of fighting each other, fighting the outside world when it doesn’t really matter. So we just wanted to come out here and play basketball.“This is our sanctuary, and we have to do everything we can to protect it. We can’t let anyone infiltrate it.”Irving, who missed Wednesday’s win against the Kings with a left thigh contusion, is averaging a team-leading 23.4 points a game along with 7 assists and 4.9 rebounds, both career highs. He is also shooting 49.5 percent from the field and 41.7 percent from 3-point range.He also ranks among the N.B.A. leaders in mercurial behavior. He has been vague about the specific source of his discontent, but it may have something to do with his pending free agency.Irving backed off an earlier pledge to re-sign with the Celtics after they struggled at the start of the season. In fact, during a trip to New York to play the Knicks on Feb. 1, he told a group of reporters in his own colorfully abrasive way that he did not owe anyone anything. The Knicks, of course, would be interested in signing Irving, a six-time All-Star who grew up in New Jersey and has a soft spot for Madison Square Garden.Then came the All-Star break, and a clip of Irving and Durant having an inaudible conversation found its way to the internet, where an army of amateur lip readers tried to decode what they were saying. Worth noting: Irving and Durant are close friends. Also worth noting: The Knicks will have enough cap space this summer for two max contracts.Irving refused to shed light on their chat, and said it was nobody’s business, which was his prerogative. But it had the general effect of using a napkin to mop up an oil spill.Since then, Irving has been alluding to nefarious forces and the steep cost of celebrity, saying he hates the spotlight — even as he sells sneakers and moonlights as an actor. He reiterated his disdain this week after collecting 19 points and 11 assists against the Warriors, his 17th double-double this season.“The business part of it is just what makes it terrible for me — honestly, dealing with all this,” he said, referring to the reporters around him. “I’m going to be honest with you guys: The basketball part of it? I have to keep that fun. That’s where I’m great. Being around my teammates, that’s what makes me happy. And the business part of it is going to be business.”It was not lost on anyone who witnessed this exchange that Irving was bashing the business of basketball while wearing an Uncle Drew ball cap — the same Uncle Drew character he popularized in soft drink commercials and then parlayed into a movie released last year.As for the basketball itself, well, Boston has had an uneven season, the product of a team that is not nearly Lakers-level dysfunctional but is not exactly cohesive, either. The Celtics arrived for their game against the Warriors having lost five of their last six games, and their locker room was a joyless place.Perhaps they needed to get away from Boston. Perhaps they needed perspective. Perhaps Irving needed to speak with Danny Ainge, the team’s president of basketball operations, and Brad Stevens, its coach, who reminded Irving that the team still had a lot of season left to play. It was not over, not yet, not by any stretch.“Every team has to find a togetherness in competing,” Stevens said. “Some teams, it takes 60 games. Some teams, it takes 20 games. And bad teams never get there. We hope that it took us 60 games, but we’ll see. We haven’t proven ourselves to be great at that yet for a long stretch of time.”In their 128-95 win against the Warriors, the Celtics had 38 assists on 49 field goals. They also communicated. When Irving and forward Jaylen Brown botched a play that led to an early turnover, Brown patted himself on the chest to apologize, then appeared to apologize a second time on their next trip up the court.The next night, in Sacramento, Irving sat behind the visiting bench for the Celtics’ 111-109 victory over the Kings. He was vocal. He did a lot of fist-pumping. And he celebrated when Hayward, less than 24 hours after scoring 30 points against the Warriors, connected on the game-winner.After suffering a grisly ankle injury in the opening game and missing last season, Hayward has struggled to find a rhythm in his return. Maybe he found it here in California, along with the rest of the team. The Celtics are too talented to let this opportunity go to waste, because who knows how long it will last?“As long as my teammates are feeling good,” Irving said, “then we’re in a good place.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points. At age 39, he became the oldest player ever to reach 50 in an NBA game.Heat 122, 76ers 99Dwyane Wade, playing the final home game of his NBA career, scored 30 points to lead Miami over Philadelphia.Wade made 10 of 23 shots, including 4 of 10 on attempts from beyond the arc. It was his second-highest scoring game of the season. But it was a bittersweet night for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention earlier in the evening when the Detroit Pistons rallied from a 22-point deficit to defeat the Memphis Grizzlies.Philadelphia, which has already clinched the third seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs, rested two of its stars: Joel Embiid, who was listed as having a knee injury, and JJ Redick (back).Warriors 112, Pelicans 103DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds against his former team as visiting Golden State defeated New Orleans.After clinching home-court advantage throughout the Western Conference playoffs on Sunday, the Warriors had Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson, Andre Iguodala and Andrew Bogut among their inactive players. Stephen Curry left for game after scoring five points in nine minutes in what the Warriors called "a precaution" after he sustained a mild foot sprain.Jahlil Okafor scored 30 points to lead the short-handed Pelicans, who dressed just eight players and finished the season 33-49.Raptors 120, Timberwolves 100Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points as visiting Toronto completed its regular-season schedule with a victory over Minnesota.The Raptors (58-24) secured the second-best record in the Eastern Conference with the win, behind only the Milwaukee Bucks (60-21), who play their final game Wednesday.Fred VanVleet added 16 points for the Raptors, Chris Boucher added career bests with 15 points and 13 rebounds, and Pascal Siakam and Norman Powell each scored 10 points. Gorgui Dieng and Andrew Wiggins each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves.Jazz 118, Nuggets 108Donovan Mitchell matched his career best of 46 points, and Utah posted a victory over Denver in Salt Lake City.Rudy Gobert added 20 points and 10 rebounds as Utah notched its ninth straight home win against Denver. Utah locked up the No. 5 seed for the Western Conference playoffs.Malik Beasley scored 25 points on 9-of-13 shooting for the Nuggets, who have lost four of their past six games and are a half-game ahead of Houston after the Rockets fell to the Oklahoma City Thunder on Tuesday.Trail Blazers 104, Lakers 101Instead of quietly sneaking into the offseason after losing its season finale to playoff-bound Portland, Los Angeles made some noise when Magic Johnson announced his resignation as president of basketball operations for the team.The game still meant something for Portland, though, and the Trail Blazers clinched home-court advantage in the first round of the Western Conference playoffs when Maurice Harkless made a 3-pointer at the buzzer for a win. The Trail Blazers can overtake the Rockets on a tiebreaker to finish third in the West with a win against the visiting Sacramento Kings on Wednesday.Harkless, who left the previous game with left hip tightness, finished with 26 points. Kentavious Caldwell-Pope had 32 points and eight assists for the Lakers, who finished with 37 wins -- two more than last season.Thunder 112, Rockets 111Russell Westbrook scored 29 points, but it was Paul George's corner 3-pointer with 1.8 seconds left that sent Oklahoma City to a home win over Houston.Oklahoma City trailed by 14 early in the fourth quarter and by four in the final minute before Westbrook's and George's heroics.James Harden made his first 12 free throws in the game but with less than 10 seconds left and Houston on top 111-109, he missed one, giving the Thunder a chance to tie or take the lead. Westbrook barreled up the court, briefly handing the ball off to Steven Adams near midcourt before getting the ball and firing it to George in the corner for what proved to be the game-winner.Celtics 116, Wizards 100Terry Rozier led seven Boston players in double figures with 21 points as his team closed out the regular season with a win over host Washington.The Celtics rallied from a 13-point, third-quarter deficit for their sixth win in eight games. Boston, which played without Marcus Smart, Jayson Tatum, Kyrie Irving, Al Horford, Marcus Morris, Aron Baynes and Gordon Hayward, will be the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs.Semi Ojeleye, Brad Wanamaker and RJ Hunter had 17 points apiece for Boston, which outscored Washington 27-15 in the fourth quarter. Tomas Satoransky led the Wizards with 19 points, and Bradley Beal scored 16 points in 16 minutes. Beal became the first person in franchise history to finish a season averaging at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists per game.Pistons 100, Grizzlies 93Andre Drummond scored 20 points and grabbed 17 rebounds, and Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to defeat visiting Memphis.Despite winning, the Pistons were unable to clinch the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. The Charlotte Hornets beat the Cleveland Cavaliers and remain one game behind Detroit heading into Wednesday night's final regular-season games. The Pistons finish against the Knicks at New York while the Hornets host the Orlando Magic.The Pistons, who trailed by 22 in the second quarter, climbed all the way back and took an 85-83 lead on Ish Smith's jumper just moments after his 3-pointer tied the score at 83-all. Smith finished with 22 points off the bench, and Luke Kennard added 15 for Detroit.Hornets 124, Cavaliers 97Kemba Walker and Jeremy Lamb scored 23 points apiece, and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive with a victory over host Cleveland.The Hornets led by 12 points in the first half and then pushed the lead all the way to 27 in the fourth quarter, winning their fourth straight and eighth in their past 11 games. They hit a season-high 22 3-pointers on 44 attempts and shot 57.7 percent from the field.Miles Bridges and Dwayne Bacon added 18 points apiece for the Hornets. Frank Kaminsky scored 14 and Devonte Graham had 10. Collin Sexton led the Cavs with 18 points.Knicks 96, Bulls 86Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points and Kevin Knox and Luke Kornet each notched double-doubles to lead New York past host Chicago.Knox had 17 points and 10 rebounds, Kornet chipped in 12 points and 13 rebounds and Damyean Dotson added 12 points for the Knicks (17-64), who are already assured of the NBA's worst record this season. They can do no worse than tie the franchise record for fewest wins in a regular season, set in 2014-15.The Bulls closed the home portion of their schedule with a 9-32 record, setting a franchise record for home futility. The 2000-01 team held the previous club standard for fewest home victories with 10.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Consider the following scenes from the N.B.A.’s annual bacchanal/business convention known as All-Star weekend:Spike Lee standing on a street corner waiting for the crosswalk signal. Stan Kroenke, whose family owns the Denver Nuggets, holding court in a hotel lobby. Joel Embiid, the star center of the Philadelphia 76ers, making small talk with the governor of North Carolina. An army of personal stylists waiting to be summoned by their clients for some of the flashiest events of the year.And then there were the agents and league officials and sneakerheads and reporters, some of whom traveled great distances to make unconventional requests of the weekend’s main attractions.“Shout out to my fans in Mongolia!” John Collins of the Atlanta Hawks yelled into a camera the morning before his appearance in the Saturday slam dunk contest.[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]All-Star weekend tends to be a blend of basketball and branding, business and pleasure — a showcase for a powerful league whose global influence continues to expand.“The whole weekend,” Mike Conley of the Memphis Grizzlies said, “is just a big party.”The All-Star Game itself, scheduled for Sunday night, felt secondary to just about everything else in the host city, as it has for many years. Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets, recalled waiting in line in 2006 for one of the more popular parties at All-Star weekend in Houston, where he watched Maciej Lampe — a center from Poland who appeared in 64 career games over parts of three seasons — bypass the line so that he could immediately be waved inside by security.“And I’m like, ‘Man, I’m behind Maciej Lampe?’” said Morey, who would officially join the front office of the Rockets a little more than six weeks later.All-Star weekend has only grown in recent years. One spreadsheet making the rounds in Charlotte listed more than 100 parties, and that did not include many of the more exclusive events. (Michael Jordan hosted a big one.) Thanks to a change in the league schedule, there is more partying and less deal-making than there used to be.Last year, the league moved the trade deadline up so that it preceded All-Star weekend. In the past, the deadline came a few days after the game, a sequence which helped create its share of absurdity. One of the more notorious examples came in 2017, when word leaked during the fourth quarter of the All-Star Game that the New Orleans Pelicans had struck a deal to acquire DeMarcus Cousins from the Sacramento Kings. Cousins learned of the trade during postgame interviews.The weekend vibe is different now.“It’s so much more fun,” one prominent agent said at a party that he hosted.In the corner, a disc jockey who appeared to be in his 60s spun tunes in a Hawaiian shirt and red-tinted glasses, while women wearing bright red dresses passed out hors d’oeuvres. Agents, clients and marketing honchos milled about the room.But none of this is meant to suggest that deals do not get done.On Thursday night, at a downtown hotel bar where patrons sipped $25 cocktails, a crowd of very tall men gathered as a private event wound down at a nearby steakhouse. Among the luminaries who emerged from the event: Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner; Kroenke, who also owns the Los Angeles Rams; Brian Rolapp, the N.F.L.’s chief media and business officer; Bill Simmons, the founder of The Ringer; Connor Schell, ESPN’s executive vice president for content; and Bob Myers, the general manager of the Golden State Warriors.“There are definitely conversations happening,” Morey said. “And there’s serendipity involved. You’re always bumping into people.”Morey was finishing lunch at an upscale restaurant. Warren LeGarie, a longtime agent to many coaches and executives, and Kiki Vandeweghe, the league’s executive vice president for basketball operations, were dining at nearby tables. Morey was about to head into a meeting with Vandeweghe and Monty McCutchen, who supervises the league’s referees.“Obviously, we care deeply about where the league is going,” Morey said, “so talking to Adam Silver about strategy or Monty McCutchen about changing how they might call certain things — all that kind of stuff could impact our franchise moving forward, so I try to be involved.”The atmosphere may seem more relaxed than it was two years ago, when most team executives and agents were focused on the trade deadline, but the shift in the schedule has not pushed aside the league’s most pressing issues.In Charlotte, a cloud loomed over the festivities, and it came in the shape of a unibrow.Perhaps you have heard? Anthony Davis, the star center for the Pelicans, requested a trade 10 days before the deadline.The Pelicans, though, rejected all trade offers for him and instead hope to reap better players and draft picks in a deal this summer. Last week, Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry called the drama of it all a “dumpster fire.” On Friday, the Pelicans fired their general manager. On Saturday, Davis told reporters that his list of preferred destinations included the Knicks and the Los Angeles Lakers. Hours later, Silver said he would like trade demands and discussions to remain behind closed doors.In any case, the Davis situation only underscored how much the topic of player movement dominates the league — even in the middle of the season, and even after the trade deadline. Everyone here was fixated on what could happen just over four months from now — at the start of free agency.Will Kevin Durant leave the Warriors? Will Kawhi Leonard spurn the Toronto Raptors? Will Kyrie Irving bolt from the Boston Celtics? And, again, what about Davis?“No one likes to see an instance,” Silver said, “where a player is demanding that he be traded when he’s still in the middle of a contractual obligation to a team.”Silver made those remarks, and his wish for private trade discussions, at a news conference before Saturday night’s skills, dunk and 3-point competitions.The media forum, like the carefully coordinated outfits stars wore to events around town, has become part of the event’s routine. So has the roll call of courtside A-listers during the dunk contest; this year’s included the rappers Quavo, 2 Chainz, J. Cole and Gucci Mane.All-Star weekend was not always so structured — or extravagant. Paul Westphal recalled making his first trip to an All-Star Game in 1977 as a guard for the Phoenix Suns. The league hosted a modest dinner. Players received commemorative mugs. Anyone associated with the game stayed at the same hotel in downtown Milwaukee.“It wasn’t like it is now where the game takes over the whole city,” Westphal said.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar missed practice, Westphal said, then showed up about 20 minutes before the start of the game in a fur coat. Westphal helped seal his team’s win with a late steal against Pete Maravich. It was a moment he said he would never forget.This weekend, Westphal was in Charlotte, where he was named a finalist for the Basketball Hall of Fame. He said he was not planning to attend any parties.“Just dinner with friends,” he said.In Charlotte, the streets around the host arena, Spectrum Center, were choked with traffic. Concert fliers hung from every lamppost. And none of the guests, spread among numerous hotels at premium nightly rates, seemed to mind the cold weather as countless lines formed for restaurants, bars and pop-up musical performances.Given all the extracurriculars, it was easy to forget that basketball was the only reason anyone was here in the first place — and perhaps that was because the only legitimate basketball was being played in a college gymnasium a few miles from downtown. A group of elite teenage prospects, without much fanfare, had convened for the league’s annual Basketball Without Borders Global Camp.In all, 63 boys and girls from 31 countries played in front of scouts and executives who hoped to identify the sport’s next batch of stars.“There’s a lot of talent here,” said Brooks Meek, the N.B.A.’s vice president for international basketball operations.The spotlight will find them soon enough.Kevin Draper and Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
