AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein and Kevin DraperDALLAS — Moments before the home team was introduced on Monday night, Kristaps Porzingis made his usual walk behind the scorer’s table to take a seat on the Dallas Mavericks’ bench at American Airlines Center.Wearing a three-piece olive suit and a maroon tie, Porzingis saluted a friendly face in the crowd and proceeded to what has become his customary vantage point. It was Porzingis’s 13th home game as a spectator since Dallas acquired him from the Knicks on Feb. 1, as he continues to recover from a serious knee injury he sustained in February 2018.Porzingis, in other words, projected normalcy in his first public appearance since it emerged that he is under investigation by law enforcement authorities in New York City over an accusation that he sexually assaulted a woman there.As the Mavericks reveled in an unforeseen 16 points and 14 rebounds from the reserve center Salah Mejri, Porzingis was right in the heart of multiple bench celebrations. Coach Rick Carlisle had given Porzingis the option of taking personal time away from the team to escape the glare of the spotlight, but Porzingis declined. He wants to keep practicing, Carlisle said, and uphold his rooting routine through the final five games of the Mavericks’ third successive season of missing the playoffs.These, of course, are not normal times for the Mavericks — not when Porzingis, whom they acquired just 60 days ago to serve as a cornerstone for the franchise alongside the electric Slovene rookie Luka Doncic, is facing such grave allegations.Porzingis’s lawyer, Roland G. Riopelle, “unequivocally” denied the accusation and revealed that he formally referred the accuser to the F.B.I. in December for what he termed her “extortionate demands.”The New York Police Department and the Manhattan district attorney’s office have confirmed an investigation is underway, but representatives have declined to comment further. The woman filed a complaint on Thursday that accused Porzingis of sexually assaulting her in his Manhattan apartment on Feb. 7, 2018 — mere hours after he sustained the debilitating knee injury.The woman did not respond to several phone calls requesting comment.For the Mavericks — one season removed from a sexual harassment scandal that led to multiple firings and an overhaul of the franchise’s business and human resources departments — the case has invited fresh scrutiny of a trade for a marquee player who is the subject of a serious criminal complaint.Complicating matters for the Mavericks is their assertion that they cannot comment on the investigation. Before Monday’s unexpected victory over the short-handed Philadelphia 76ers, the Mavericks’ owner, Mark Cuban, reiterated to a group of reporters that the team was told by federal authorities not to comment about the case. The F.B.I. declined to comment.“I’ve got nothing to say — n-o-t-h-i-n-g,” Cuban said, spelling out the word and repeating a stance he has maintained since the allegations against Porzingis were first revealed Saturday night. “When I said federal authorities said for us not to comment, they were being serious.”Cuban and other Mavericks officials have referred all Porzingis-related questions to the N.B.A. The league office, however, has not responded to requests for further elaboration from The New York Times beyond its brief initial statement, from the N.B.A. spokesman Mike Bass, that “we are aware of the situation.”Riopelle said he had provided the district attorney’s office with materials that show the woman attempted to extort Porzingis.“We are confident that after the district attorney reviews these materials, they will recognize that the complaint in this case is completely meritless,” Riopelle said.Porzingis’s camp has received public backing from Michele Roberts, executive director of the National Basketball Players Association and a former trial lawyer.“We have been aware of these allegations for some time, have evaluated the accuser’s claims and, based on what is presently before us, stand with Kristaps,” Roberts said in a statement.The New York Times reported on Saturday that before the trade, the Knicks made the Mavericks aware of a potential “extortion issue” with Porzingis. One person briefed on the trade call between the teams and who was not authorized to discuss it publicly expressed the belief on Monday that the N.B.A. would not have allowed the trade to go through if the case against Porzingis appeared to be strong.It appears that the N.B.A. is letting that investigation play out or awaiting further developments before deciding on any action against Porzingis — although the league, under the terms of its joint policy with the players’ association on matters of sexual assault, can place players on administrative leave in these situations if it sees fit.Dallas had aggressively pursued the trade for Porzingis, a 7-foot-3 forward from Latvia, with an open determination to sign him to a new five-year maximum contract worth an estimated $158 million in July. Cuban declined to answer on Monday night when a reporter asked if the Mavericks remained eager to sign Porzingis to such a lucrative contract.Not much with the Mavericks is clear at the moment, although Carlisle insisted to the news media before the Philadelphia game that “basketballwise, it’s business as usual,” no matter what is swirling around Porzingis. Dallas then went out and took advantage of the sidelined Joel Embiid (knee) and Jimmy Butler (back) to follow up Sunday afternoon’s win at Oklahoma City — despite Doncic’s injury absence — with a 122-102 rout of the 76ers.“Did we look distracted?” Carlisle said.Marc Stein reported from Dallas, and Kevin Draper from New York. Zolan Kanno-Youngs contributed reporting from Washington.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballThe Mavericks rookie is drawing LeBron James comparisons and has “fast-forwarded” his team’s decision-making.By Marc SteinDALLAS — Dirk Nowitzki has seen many things in his 21 seasons with the Dallas Mavericks. What he had never seen, until last month, was a fellow Maverick who could attract nearly two dozen autograph seekers in subzero temperatures to greet the team bus on a Thursday morning in Detroit.Luka Doncic did just that in the 2 a.m. hour of Jan. 31, as the Mavericks pulled into a hotel adjacent to the world headquarters of General Motors, on the unglamorous end of a back-to-back set that began in New York.It is likewise safe to presume that none of Nowitzki’s other 197 teammates over two decades in Dallas could have inspired what happened mere hours later. In a swift-moving blockbuster trade, Dallas acquired Kristaps Porzingis from the Knicks to serve as Doncic’s sidekick, with Mavericks General Manager Donnie Nelson openly admitting that he pushed for the deal because Doncic has “fast-forwarded a lot of our decision-making.”These are the tales from just one day, albeit maybe the wildest day, of what Nowitzki frequently refers to as Lukamania.“When we get to cities now, even late at night, there are so many people waiting with things for him to sign that it’s almost like we’re the Warriors,” Nowitzki said. “Lukamania is real. We’re living it every day.”[Another Rookie: The Perimeter Can’t Protect You From Mitchell Robinson]This week brings another milestone for Doncic, who celebrates his 20th birthday on Thursday. He is averaging 20.9 points, 7.2 rebounds and 5.7 assists through 56 games and is responsible for four of the five triple-doubles in N.B.A. history recorded by teenagers. It is a start that has quickly validated Nelson’s long-held belief that Doncic possessed superstar potential.The only other rookie in league history to hit those levels over a full season was Oscar Robertson in 1960-61.“I love, love, love guys that can pass the ball,” Nelson said, prioritizing Doncic’s ability to run a team at 6 feet 7 inches over the fact he is already known for having the league’s second-most-feared step-back jump shot, behind only James Harden’s.“I knew I could play over here,” Doncic said, “but it’s better than I expected, for sure.”The gaudy numbers and worldwide interest in his exploits enabled Doncic to amass more than four million votes in N.B.A. All-Star balloting, trailing only LeBron James and Giannis Antetokounmpo. Doncic, in other words, finished higher in leaguewide balloting than Michael Jordan (fifth) did as a rookie. Higher, too, than James (13th) and even Yao Ming, who could manage only the fourth-highest total in 2003 despite the considerable voting might of Yao’s native China.Doncic’s instant production has also validated every pundit who insisted, amid no shortage of skepticism, that concerns about Doncic’s athleticism and corresponding ability to deal with the length of N.B.A. defenders were folly given the rampant success he achieved both at the club (Real Madrid) and national team (Slovenia) levels as an 18-year-old. In the process, Doncic has unleashed a torrent of second-guessing upon the teams (Phoenix, Sacramento and Atlanta) that let him slip to the Mavericks. Yet Doncic insists his maiden N.B.A. season, which appears destined to be christened with the league’s rookie of the year trophy, has not been as easy it looks.The Mavericks, you see, were 26-34 entering Wednesday night’s home date with Indiana and likely to miss the playoffs for a third consecutive season. They have traded away all four of Doncic’s projected fellow starters (Dennis Smith Jr., DeAndre Jordan, Wes Matthews and Harrison Barnes) in deals that netted Porzingis and roughly $30 million in salary-cap space, neither of which can help the team this season.It is the first time in Doncic’s life, since he took up basketball at age 7, that he has experienced losing. One hint of how well he’s coping with it: Doncic has pulled his jersey apart in frustration after a play gone awry — twice.“It’s harder than people think,” Doncic said.“He’s a winner — he won everything in Europe,” Juancho Hernangomez of the Denver Nuggets said. “So every time he loses, he gets so mad.”Hernangomez has been observing Doncic from close range for years, both on the floor — since Doncic played alongside Hernangomez’s brother, Charlotte’s Willy Hernangomez, at Real Madrid — and through their shared WhatsApp chat room, which houses various European players fond of the popular video game Fortnite. But Mavericks officials are not worried about a scouting report from a friend that paints Doncic as a sore loser.“He doesn’t handle losing well — I know that for a fact,” Dallas Coach Rick Carlisle said. “But I don’t handle losing well, either.”As recently as May 15, Mavericks executives were worried about Doncic — big time. Having known for more than a year that they wanted to draft him if they had the chance, team officials were crestfallen in Chicago when Dallas slipped from a projected No. 3 in that night’s draft lottery to No. 5. “It was devastating for us,” Nelson said. “We thought our chance to get him was gone because it’s really hard to trade up in the lottery.” Nowitzki betrayed a public hint of the organization’s disappointment when he tweeted this reaction: “Of course.”To move up high enough, Dallas ultimately had to persuade the Atlanta Hawks to surrender the No. 3 overall pick. It cost Dallas both the No. 5 pick, which Atlanta used to take Trae Young, as well as the Mavericks’ top pick in the 2019 draft. But the Dallas owner, Mark Cuban, blessed the deal, even at that price, because Nelson lobbied so hard for it. Five years earlier, during the 2013 draft, Nelson and his longtime international scout, Tony Ronzone, pushed for the Mavericks to use the No. 13 pick on a little-known Greek teenager named Giannis Antetokounmpo. Cuban wouldn’t allow it, given that Antetokounmpo, unlike Doncic, was mostly a mystery — and promptly regretted it as Antetokounmpo blossomed into a star in Milwaukee.So this time, after the disappointment of the lottery, Cuban blessed Nelson to do whatever it took to land Doncic. What the team got was the son of a former Slovene pro — Sasa Doncic — and a veteran of three full seasons in the EuroLeague and Spain’s La Liga with Real Madrid after Luka Doncic made his pro debut at 16.To the Mavericks’ delight, Doncic was more N.B.A.-ready than they ever dreamed — as his 16-for-29 shooting in the final three minutes of one-possession games this season would suggest. As Carlisle put it: “Unique background, unique skill set, unique body type.”“I hesitate to throw out names like LeBron James and Magic Johnson, who have been do-everything kind of stars, but it’s pretty clear now that Luka has many of those same traits and has proven that he can do a lot of those things,” Carlisle said. “He has deceptive size, strength and quickness — and an understanding beyond his years on how to use his body to make plays and draw fouls.”Carlisle is hardly alone in making such lofty comparisons. Miami’s Dwyane Wade, one of the league’s foremost James experts after their four seasons together with the Heat, has called Doncic’s passing “LeBron-like.” Los Angeles Clippers Coach Doc Rivers said of Doncic: “He’s my favorite player to watch almost, and not talking just rookies. First of all, he plays with a great joy — I love that. And he’s just so advanced in the way he plays. The sky’s the limit for him. Wait until he gets in shape.”Rivers was laughing when he tacked on that last line, but he did hit on a prime area of Year 1 concern with Doncic — conditioning.The Mavericks and Doncic’s representatives, headed by the longtime N.B.A. agent Bill Duffy, agreed shortly after the draft to impose as much rest on Doncic as possible from July through September after a nonstop run at the highest levels of international basketball for nearly a year. Doncic thus began the season heavier than his listed weight of 218 and has absorbed jibes about his diet ever since.But Mavericks officials are pleased with the gradual changes in Doncic’s dietary habits. At the team’s behest, Doncic hired a chef in December to prepare a number of meals for pregame and off-night consumption. Doncic has also begun working fresh juices into his routine.In Madrid, Doncic lived for the past two and a half years with his mother, Mirjam Poterbin, who raised Doncic while running two beauty salons in Ljubljana. (Doncic has long declined to discuss his father.)In Dallas, mom and son live separately near the American Airlines Center as Doncic grows into his independence, but still within walking distance.“This was his dream,” Poterbin said. “At 7 years old he was already talking about N.B.A. I cry a lot of times.”Yet there have been Year 1 challenges and disappointments for Doncic amid the Lukamania — and beyond the ever-present adjustment to playing for a team with scant postseason prospects.He watched helplessly as his fellow Spanish-speaking teammate J.J. Barea suffered a season-ending Achilles’ tear in January. He lived through his first big trade, seeing Dallas abruptly abort its planned Doncic/Smith Jr. partnership when the chance arose to acquire his pal Porzingis.“I was shocked,” Doncic said. “Europe doesn’t work like this.”Doncic has also struggled at times with his free throws, converting just 72.6 percent this season despite proving so adept at getting to the line (6.4 times per game). Mom, meanwhile, admitted that Doncic was “quite sad at first” about missing out on an All-Star spot because of a format change in which fan balloting, as of last season, only accounts for 50 percent of the equation for determining starters.The good news: These all rank as welcome tests — even the Mavericks’ sub-.500 record — compared to the early hurdles posed by the transition Doncic faced at 13. That was his tender age when Doncic left his mother back in Slovenia to enter the Real Madrid academy.“There are no words to describe this, really,” Poterbin said. “Honestly I would not go through it again.”“It was way harder,” Doncic said, “than coming from Madrid to here.”Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreBy Victor MatherThe Tampa Bay Lightning were almost unstoppable this season, racing to 62 wins in 82 games and the best point total since the N.H.L.’s current system began in 2006.The Lightning scored 103 more goals than they surrendered, powered by Steven Stamkos’s 45. Other stars of the deep team were Nikita Kucherov, who led the league in points (128) and assists (87); and Andrei Vasilevskiy, who was a rock in goal.“It’s one of the best I’ve ever played with,” said Stamkos, an 11-year veteran, when asked to evaluate his team in January. “I have no concerns about us taking our foot off the gas.”But that’s exactly what happened. The Lightning were swept in their best-of-seven series against the Columbus Blue Jackets, and it was not even close. Tampa Bay was outscored by 19-8 over four games. Stamkos and Kucherov had been held pointless heading into Tuesday’s series finale, and a slight reawakening from the stars was not nearly enough to stave off a 7-3 defeat that ended their season.There is a case to be made that the Lightning are the biggest playoff underachievers in sports history. While there have been big playoff busts before, has a team this good ever performed so badly?Winning the Presidents Trophy for the league’s best regular season record is hardly a guarantee of playoff success. Six times since the trophy was introduced in 1986, the team that won it lost in the first round.But all of those teams at least won a game in their series. The worst bust was the 2012 Canucks, which lost its opening series four games to one. But with 111 points, they were not as dominant as Tampa Bay, which had 128 this year. And they did win Game 4 of their series against the Los Angeles Kings, who went on to win the Stanley Cup.Going further back, the 1938 Bruins and 1929 Canadiens failed to win a playoff game after having the best record. But those were in best-of-five series, and both teams got byes, so they did not technically lose in the first round. And both lost all three games by a single goal.Several N.B.A. teams in recent years have lost their first playoff series despite having recorded the best regular-season record. But all of them won at least two games in that series. The most egregious failure probably belongs to the 2007 Dallas Mavericks, whose sterling 67-15 record behind Dirk Nowitzki, Josh Howard and Jason Terry was tarnished by a four-games-to-two loss to the eighth-seeded Warriors.The 2004 Los Angeles Sparks are the only W.N.B.A. team with the season’s best record to lose in the first round, dropping a 2-1 series to the Sacramento Monarchs.Baseball started its multi-round playoff system in 1969. The first team to have the league’s best record and then get swept in the first round was the 1980 Yankees at 103-59, who lost to the Royals. The Angels in 2014 were 98-64 and were also swept by the Royals in a five-game series.But though both of those teams had fine regular seasons, they did not approach the dominance of the Lightning this season. The 2001 Mariners (116-46) and 1906 Cubs (116-36) would be considered big postseason disappointments. But the Mariners made it through one playoff round before losing to the Yankees, and the Cubs, playing in an era when the World Series was the entire postseason, lost four games to two.The N.F.L., of course, is a different animal as its playoffs consist of single-elimination games. The undefeated 2007 Patriots are remembered for losing to the Giants in the Super Bowl, but won two playoff games first. The worst loss at the first hurdle belongs to the 2011 Packers, who were 15-1, but lost to the 9-7 Giants, 37-20.Only two top seeds have lost in the first round of the N.C.A.A tournament. In 1998, the Stanford women’s team, 21-5 and seeded No. 1 in their region, lost to No. 16 Harvard. Last season, the Virginia men matched that ignominious feat when they lost to Maryland, Baltimore County.That Virginia team was No. 1 in the country after a 31-2 season. Though it was only one game, their defeat is probably the closest to the flameout that the Lightning endured.And Virginia went on to win the title the next year, a possible sign of hope for the Lightning on Tuesday night as their season ended in disaster.An earlier version of this article misstated the number of points Nikita Kucherov had in the regular season. It was 128, not 120.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBERLIN — Retired NBA champion Dirk Nowitzki, who spent 21 seasons at the Dallas Mavericks, could see himself returning to basketball as coach or manager in a few years time, the German said.The 40-year-old future Hall of Famer ended his sparkling career last week after more than two decades at the Mavericks with whom he was crowned NBA champion in 2011 and was a 14-time All Star."After one or two years I can see myself being happy... as a coach or a manager," Nowitzki told Germany's Die Zeit newspaper in an interview to be published on Wednesday."I would like to be a mentor for a young player and... accompany them through their career in my very own way."For now, Nowitzki is content to put his feet up and enjoy a glass of wine and a slice of cake, something he could not do for years as a professional player."In the past week I had some cake and I also had my first glass of wine after 10 years of abstinence," he said. "I was really warm inside after only a few sips. That felt good."Nowitzki holds the record for having played the most seasons for the same club and is sixth in the all-time scorers list of the NBA.Nagging injuries, however, took their toll on his body and continuing his career past the current season was impossible."What I did not want to happen under any circumstance was to say goodbye and be sitting at home, thinking 'damn, you would really like to play now. Why did you do this'," he said."But my body was not good. To be honest my foot where I had surgery last year was not well throughout the year. I knew it would not be getting any better." (Reporting by Karolos Grohmann; Editing by Christian Radnedge)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPHOENIX — John MacLeod, the longtime NBA coach who led the Phoenix Suns to the 1976 NBA Finals, has died. He was 81.MacLeod's son, Matt, confirmed his father's death Sunday to The Associated Press. The elder MacLeod fought Alzheimer's disease for more than a decade.MacLeod is the winningest coach in Suns history, going 579-543 in the regular season from 1973-87. He also coached the Dallas Mavericks from 1987-89 and the New York Knicks in 1990-91, finishing his 18-year head coaching career with a 707-657 mark.MacLeod had his most success in Phoenix, capped by the 1975-76 "Sundarella Suns" run to the NBA Finals. The Suns lost to Boston in six games in the finals, with the Celtics' triple-overtime victory in Game 5 at Boston Garden regarded as one of the greatest games ever."His passion for the game was matched only by his endearing personality, humility and class, a man who was loved by everyone that had the pleasure of interacting with him," the Suns said in a statement. "Coach MacLeod was a winner in every sense and will be dearly missed by our entire Phoenix Suns family."His Phoenix teams made nine playoff appearances, also reaching the Western Conference finals in 1979 and 1984. He had a franchise- record 37 playoff victories, and was placed in the Phoenix Suns Ring of Honor in 2012.MacLeod also worked as an assistant with Phoenix, Denver and Golden State, ending his coaching career with the Warriors in 2006. He was a college head coach at Oklahoma from 1967-73 and Notre Dame from 1991-99, with son Matt a member of the Fighting Irish squad in his father's last two seasons. MacLeod starred at Providence High School in Clarksville, Indiana, and in college at Bellarmine.MacLeod also is survived by wife Carol and daughter Kathleen.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe Knicks shook the N.B.A. on Thursday by abruptly cutting ties with Kristaps Porzingis, sending the player long billed as their 7-foot 3-inch savior to the Dallas Mavericks in a blockbuster trade that could make New York a major player in free agency this July.The deal, which was first disclosed by The New York Times, came one week before the N.B.A.’s trading deadline and changes the course of the Knicks’ franchise. Porzingis, Tim Hardaway Jr., Courtney Lee and Trey Burke have all been shipped to Dallas in exchange for the promising guard Dennis Smith Jr., who was a first-round draft pick in 2017, two future first-round picks and the expiring contracts of the veterans DeAndre Jordan and Wesley Matthews.Porzingis, who was increasingly unhappy about the Knicks’ constant losing and is scheduled to become a restricted free agent July 1, asked to be traded on Thursday, according to both a team statement and subsequent comments that Knicks President Steve Mills and General Manager Scott Perry made on a conference call Thursday evening.But the Knicks and the Mavericks were already far along in trade talks before Porzingis lodged that request, according to two people with knowledge of the situation who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.“As is standard for this time of year, we were exploring various options on potential trades,” Perry said in a statement. “Considering the uncertainty regarding Kristaps’s free-agent status and his request today to be traded, we made a trade that we are confident improves the franchise.”On the conference call, Mills described Porzingis as a player “that no longer wanted to be part of our group.”In a farewell Twitter post Thursday night, Porzingis said: “New York will always have a special place in my heart. Grateful for everybody who made this journey so special for my family and I.”Dallas’s willingness to acquire the contracts of Hardaway and Lee in order to land Porzingis clinched the deal and will position the Knicks to create nearly $75 million in salary-cap space this summer — enough to offer maximum contracts to two of the top players expected to be free agents. Golden State’s Kevin Durant and Boston’s Kyrie Irving are frequently mentioned as Knicks targets.Porzingis established himself as an All-Star last season but tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee in a game early last February. He has not played since and never regained his trust in the organization, which has been waning since the final days of Phil Jackson’s ill-fated tenure as team president and could not be repaired by Mills, Perry and David Fizdale, who is in his first season as the Knicks’ coach.Even though Porzingis has been sidelined for nearly a year, Dallas was sufficiently motivated to surrender prized assets such as Smith and the two first-round picks (likely to be conveyed in 2021 and 2023) to get the deal done.The Mavericks now hope to win over Porzingis, 23, keep him in Dallas and make him the team’s co-star alongside the 6-7 Luka Doncic, who is only 19 but has already emerged as a standout in his first season in the N.B.A. In Dallas’s dream scenario, Porzingis, who is from Latvia, and Doncic, who is from Slovenia, will form a partnership reminiscent of the retired Steve Nash and Dirk Nowitzki, who, at 40 and in his 21st season with the Mavericks, may be playing his final N.B.A. campaign.“We obviously think Porzingis is a great young talent, similar in many ways to Dirk,” Mavericks Coach Rick Carlisle told 103.3 FM radio in Dallas before his team played Thursday night in Detroit. “This is kind of a Dirk-and-Nash type of situation, only these guys are taller.”For the Knicks, being able to shed the contracts of both Hardaway and Lee had become a priority before next week’s trade deadline, as  The Times reported last week. So they jumped at the opportunity to do the deal with Dallas rather than spend the next week seeing what other teams might offer for Porzingis.The Knicks have been regarded in league circles for some time as the foremost threat to sign Durant away from the Warriors in July. The deal with Dallas means they will have the financial wherewithal to do so — and likewise to pursue Irving.The Knicks, with a league-worst record of 10-40, are also on course to have a 14 percent chance at securing the top pick in the June draft, which would enable them to select Zion Williamson, the highly coveted Duke forward.Smith was the No. 9 overall pick in the 2017 draft, passed over by the Knicks and Jackson, who drafted a different backcourt player: Frank Ntilikina of France. Dallas has been trying to trade Smith for weeks, having quickly concluded that the ball-dominant guard, despite his robust athleticism, is not an ideal fit with Doncic.In a timely sales job to his new employers, Smith posted a career-high 15 assists, along with 13 points and 10 rebounds, in the Mavericks’ 114-90 victory over the Knicks on Wednesday night at Madison Square Garden.Jordan and Matthews are on expiring contracts that the Knicks can try to trade before next Thursday’s 3 p.m. deadline. It is widely expected that both players will seek contract buyouts from the Knicks if they are not traded again before the deadline so they can seek roster spots with playoff-bound teams for the remainder of the season. Yet it should be noted that Jordan is one of Durant’s closest friends, which might factor into where he wants to be in the months ahead.Porzingis, whose selection at No. 4 over all by the Knicks in the 2015 draft was initially panned by critics, made steady progress in his first two and a half seasons and was averaging 22.7 points, 6.6 rebounds and 2.4 blocks per game at the time of his injury. Perhaps as impressively, when healthy, Porzingis consistently gave the impression that he had the fortitude to thrive in the intense, media-driven atmosphere that surrounds the Knicks in New York.There will now be immense pressure on the Knicks to land players at the Durant/Irving level to justify the trade — assuming Porzingis recovers fully from his A.C.L. tear. Kemba Walker, the Charlotte Hornets’ All-Star guard, is another free agent known to interest the Knicks.No matter what happens in the free-agent market this summer, Dallas has furnished the Knicks with two attractive draft assets. The Mavericks surrendered their first available first-round pick (2021 at the earliest) that has no protections and a pick protected only through the first 10 choices (as early as the 2023 draft). Dallas was not permitted to trade its top pick in the draft this June because it already traded that selection to Atlanta in the deal last June to acquire the draft rights to Doncic. Regardless, the Knicks are already looking ahead.“We’re extremely confident in the direction that we’re headed,” Perry said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinThe Knicks’ sudden trade sending Kristaps Porzingis, their franchise player, to the Dallas Mavericks last week has raised a swirl of questions about the team’s motivations.Good news: We have answers.Porzingis was abruptly dispatched to Dallas last Thursday, along with Tim Hardaway Jr., Courtney Lee and Trey Burke, for guard Dennis Smith Jr., two future first-round picks and the sizable expiring contracts of DeAndre Jordan and Wes Matthews.Let’s dig into six of the biggest curiosities surrounding the departure of the Knicks’ beloved No. 6.Steve Mills, the Knicks’ president, cited worries that Porzingis was growing detached from the organization as a key factor in the team’s decision to seek out trades for the best big man it has seen since Patrick Ewing.It turns out that the Knicks spent much of January quietly canvassing the league for potential Porzingis deals, according to a person familiar with the talks who was not authorized to discuss them publicly. They tried — unsuccessfully — to trade for untouchables such as Utah’s Donovan Mitchell and Sacramento’s De’Aaron Fox.But the Knicks knew all along that the Mavericks had the wherewithal to meet many of their trade objectives and, just as crucially, that Dallas was generally unfazed by the torn anterior cruciate ligament Porzingis suffered last February.In Smith, Dallas had a recent top-10 pick to offer. The Mavericks also proved willing to give up two future first-round draft picks in a Porzingis deal while absorbing the contracts of Hardaway and Lee. The Knicks were able to shed both of those deals because Dallas had two huge expiring contracts to send back (Jordan and Matthews) and had long been fond of Hardaway despite his defensive deficiencies.Perhaps you are a Smith skeptic. Or just a Knicks skeptic. Those are both understandable positions. But a trade that returns three quality assets and will create the kind of salary-cap space this summer that the Knicks must have to chase Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving in free agency is no salary dump.It is a gamble, true, but it is also an undeniable haul.The Mavericks’ interest in Porzingis has been an open secret to the Knicks for years. One Mavericks official estimated that Dallas approached the Knicks “about a hundred times” before the team ever showed any willingness to discuss trading him.The Knicks, for their part, had expressed interest in Smith all season. The teams, according to two people with knowledge of their talks, also had been discussing a Hardaway-for-Matthews trade for weeks before Jan. 28, which both sides pinpoint as the first date the Knicks were open to discussing a Porzingis blockbuster.The parties, as a result, did not need long to build a trade framework.It certainly did not hurt that the Mavericks made their lone Madison Square Garden appearance of the season two nights later. Knicks General Manager Scott Perry and his Mavericks counterpart, Donnie Nelson, met before the game in a Garden hallway before taking their huddle behind closed doors and summoning Mills.By night’s end, Smith had registered a triple-double in a resounding Dallas victory and the Mavericks were offering to seal the Porzingis deal by handshake, since Mark Cuban, the Dallas owner, was in the building. The Knicks, however, asked for more time.The reason? Porzingis and his brother Janis, the player’s agent, had requested a Thursday morning meeting.When asked at a Monday news conference to address his reported desire to be traded, Porzingis passed.“I would rather just focus on what’s ahead of me than looking back,” Porzingis said.A person with knowledge of the meeting, however, said it was requested by the Porzingis brothers — after they had canceled a similar meeting earlier in January — and that it lasted less than five minutes. Later in the day, according to the person, Janis Porzingis gave the Knicks a list of four teams he and Kristaps had deemed acceptable trade destinations.The Nets and the Los Angeles Clippers were among those four teams, but Dallas was not. The Knicks, meanwhile, were told Porzingis was prepared to leave the team and continue his knee rehabilitation in Spain if he was not moved by Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline.It was not long after receiving the four-team list that the Knicks notified the Mavericks they would do the deal.The Knicks were convinced that no team besides Dallas would take the Hardaway and Lee contracts and package a player of Smith’s caliber with first-round draft picks.The Knicks also were fearful that letting the Dallas offer linger, or engaging other teams in the week leading up to the trade deadline, would enable the Porzingis camp to scare off the Mavericks or other potential suitors by threatening to sign long-term only with teams like the Nets or the Clippers.In a radio interview Monday with 105.3 FM in Dallas, Cuban said, “Shopping a deal is a lot more complicated than it sounds.”Risky as it would be given his uncertain health, Porzingis has the option to play next season for a mere $4.5 million and become an unrestricted free agent in July 2020. The Knicks’ mounting fears that he would exercise that option, or say he was only willing to sign a one-year deal with a player option in Year 2, are largely what convinced team officials they had to pursue trades.But the Mavericks are one of those dice-rolling teams, like Boston, Houston and most recently Oklahoma City when it traded for Paul George, that bet on themselves in these situations. Dallas is already expressing confidence it can get Porzingis’s signature on a five-year, $158 million contract this summer.Porzingis has pre-existing relationships with Dirk Nowitzki and Luka Doncic, the Mavericks’ rising star from Slovenia. And neither Mavericks Coach Rick Carlisle nor Cuban has been bashful about comparing a Doncic/Porzingis partnership to the Nowitzki/Steve Nash duo that was busted up after just six seasons. Nash was allowed to sign with Phoenix in July 2004, after which both Nowitzki and Nash won most valuable player honors separately.“It was my mistake to not keep Dirk and Steve together longer,” Cuban said Monday night. “I won’t make the same mistake with Luka and K.P.”It is simply not possible to answer this today. Not without knowing, for starters, how the Knicks will fare in free agency — and how Porzingis will bounce back from his knee injury.But I can tell you this: In my discussions with rival team executives, I have heard from many more who praise the trade than those who question how much the Knicks received in return.Also: The threat of the Knicks persuading Durant to leave one of the most dominant teams in league history, based on the latest vibes emanating from the Bay Area, has never felt more real to the Warriors themselves.The Knicks have received considerable criticism for smearing Porzingis on his way out. And let’s face it: Believe-it-when-I-see-it scoffing at the notion that the game’s biggest names would be willing to play for the Knicks, when they are still owned and operated by James Dolan, is fully expected given how the last two decades have gone since the Knicks’ trip to the N.B.A. finals in 1999.Yet there is far more to like than dislike about the deal, even if Porzingis becomes everything Dallas dreams he can be. The Knicks move forward with massive financial flexibility and a young core of Smith, Kevin Knox, Allonzo Trier and Frank Ntilikina, as well as seven first-round picks over the next five years — chips they can either build around or offer in trades for someone starry like Anthony Davis.Processing all that should bring Knicks-loving New Yorkers some winter warmth.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMEMPHIS, Tenn. — Salah Mejri scored a career-high 19 points, including the tying basket in regulation and the first seven points of overtime as the Dallas Mavericks defeated the Memphis Grizzlies 129-127 on Sunday night.Mejri, who had nine rebounds and four blocks, was 7 of 12 from the floor and made a pair of 3-pointers. Trey Burke led the Mavericks with 24 points, 14 in the fourth quarter and overtime. Justin Jackson and Dorian Finney-Smith added 16 points apiece, and Finney-Smith grabbed 12 rebounds.Delon Wright had his second consecutive triple-double with 20 points, 13 rebounds and 12 assists for the Grizzlies. Justin Holiday paced Memphis with a career-high 30 points.Memphis led 112-110 after Ivan Rabb hit one of two free throws with 54.5 seconds left in regulation. After four misses inside by the Mavericks, they pulled even when Mejri scored on a putback with 1.5 seconds remaining.That sent the game to overtime after Memphis couldn't get a shot off before the horn sounded ending regulation.In the extra period, Mejri scored on a pair of dunks and then a 3-pointer to give Dallas an early lead. Memphis tied it but could never go ahead, and the Mavericks made three of four free throws in the final 15 seconds.Wright's 3-point attempt as the horn sounded was short.TIP-INSMavericks: Dirk Nowitzki, who only played in the first half, has appeared in 76 games against the Grizzlies — the most regular-season games against the franchise by any NBA player. He is also second in scoring against the Grizzlies behind Kobe Bryant. . Nowitzki grabbed his 10,000th defensive rebound in the first quarter, becoming the fifth NBA player to reach that milestone. . Dallas rookie Luka Doncic missed his fourth game in the last five with a variety of injuries, most notably a bruised right thigh.Grizzlies: A 3-pointer in the second quarter set a franchise record for 3s in a season with 768. The previous mark of 767 was set in 2016-17. ... Bruno Caboclo had a career-high 17 rebounds. His previous best was 13 on March 27 against Golden State. . Point guard Mike Conley missed his fourth straight game with left ankle soreness.UP NEXTMavericks: Host the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday in their final home game of the season.Grizzlies: Play at Detroit on Tuesday in their last road game.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDirk Nowitzki was mum all season on his future plans but after a rousing performance in the Dallas Mavericks' home finale Tuesday, the star finally announced the decision everyone expected."Wow. I'm a little overwhelmed, as you would think," Nowitzki told the sellout crowd after the Mavericks' 120-109 victory over the Phoenix Suns. "As you guys might expect, this is my last home game."Nowitzki made his much-anticipated retirement announcement after delivering a season-high 30-point performance, with five 3-pointers, against the Suns. The 7-footer scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history (31,540 points) finished the game with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 33 minutes.The 40-year-old Nowitzki, whose playing career will officially end Wednesday night when the Mavs play the San Antonio Spurs, was honored by the appearance of five of his childhood heroes -- Charles Barkley, Larry Bird, Scottie Pippen, Shawn Kemp and fellow German Detlef Schrempf -- for a postgame ceremony that included heartfelt speeches by Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle and owner Mark Cuban."Amazing that my heroes came out here for this game," Nowitzki said. "Thank you guys so much. Love you guys. Grew up watching you and idolizing you guys so this means more than you will ever know."Mark, can't wait to see what you've got for my jersey retirement. I mean, this is a high bar that you set. But as you guys might expect, this is my last home game."Nowitzki's final season didn't actually begin until mid-December thanks to a longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career and averaged 6.6 points in fewer than 15 minutes a game.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted M-V-P! M-V-P! Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2007 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDALLAS — Whether they are trying to keep their 34-year-old playmaker Jose Juan Barea spry or aiming to help their 19-year-old phenom Luka Doncic dodge the infamous rookie wall, the Dallas Mavericks turn to the same resource: A blood test.It is not just any blood test. The Mavericks import frequent testing from the Irish company Orreco, which is in its third season making personalized recommendations for Mavericks players regarding athletic workloads and diets, largely through the study of blood analysis.Although some in the sports medicine community have questioned whether the value of such blood work is overstated, Dallas leans heavily on Orreco’s team of consultants and their assessments of how to maximize player-readiness.“All the things N.B.A. teams talk about — players’ minutes, their load, their tracking data, their camera data — all of that is external data used to try to predict what’s going on internally,” said Casey Smith, the head of Dallas’s athletic training staff. “What we’re doing is trying to get a little bit of a look at what’s actually going on internally.”Dallas is one of just two N.B.A. teams, along with the Knicks, to hire Orreco, which proposes customized remedies to combat fatigue and tries to identify increased risk for injury and illness by obtaining a range of data from players’ blood and feeding it into machine-learning programs.Taking cues from Orreco’s findings, Smith and Jeremy Holsopple, the Mavericks’ athletic performance director, tailor an individualized mix of training, rest and recovery for each of Dallas’s 17 players. The Mavericks' owner, Mark Cuban, said the team pays Orreco nearly $150,000 per year.No Maverick has embraced this process more than Barea, who understands all too well that fatigued players face an increased risk of soft-tissue injuries.Two seasons ago, amid worrisome forecasts from what Smith referred to as “the numbers,” Barea tore a calf muscle in a November 2016 game against Boston.Ever since, Barea has proactively sought updates on his levels of oxidative stress (worrisome as they get higher) and white blood cell counts (which can indicate illness or infection when they spike or indicate less immune prevention as they get lower).This season, Barea is playing some of his best basketball (averaging 10.9 points and 5.7 assists in just 19.8 minutes per game) and said he is “having more fun than ever” while carefully adhering to the suggestions Smith gives based off Orreco’s data.“I like it,” Barea said. “At this point in my career, you have to work more on the body. They let me know what’s going on — like what you need to eat or what you need to stop eating. I want the feedback.”Four times a season, Orreco staff members come to Dallas to administer a full venous blood draw on Mavericks players. To supplement those visits, Dallas mixes in frequent capillary blood draws for its players in which a quick pinprick sample is taken to provide near-instant readings of oxidative stress levels in the blood from a player’s ear or index finger.League rules allow players to refuse any blood testing if they find the procedures too invasive, but the team says only one Maverick, whom they declined to identify, had done so.“It’s your health, so it’s your decision,” Smith said.The samples, according to the Orreco co-founder Dr. Brian Moore, enable the firm to analyze a player’s hematology and biochemistry by assessing nearly 50 biomarkers.This includes examining creatine kinase to assess muscle damage and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein to measure inflammation — two areas of particular concern for basketball players because of the nature of their on-court movements. Hydration and nutrition indicators — such as vitamin D levels, and iron and fatty acid profiles — are among the additional variables analyzed to determine where each player lands on a four-zone “readiness to perform” index.Along with the biomarker panels, Orreco’s algorithms also take into account game minutes, air miles traveled, sleep data and reaction times that are obtained from wearable devices used during practices.The rules that allow players to opt out of blood testing are in place because regulating how teams use biometrics and the data such research produces — specifically whether the data belongs to the teams, players or the league itself — remains an evolving point of concern throughout the N.B.A. As a safeguard amid the rise of wearable technology in practice sessions, league policy threatens fines of up to $250,000 per team for the misuse of biometric data.Yet Smith insists that the collaboration with Orreco has improved the Mavericks’ ability to track the onset of illness and keep players “more available” for games. In the 2016-17 season, according to data maintained by InStreetClothes.com, a website that tracks injuries in the N.B.A., Dallas players missed only four games due to illness — less than half the league average of 8.5.The Mavericks then lost a league-low zero games to illness last season, when the league average was 7.1 games per team, according to the site.“Does that mean we win more games?” Smith said. “Not necessarily. But it gives us a better shot.”Still, with the sports and fitness world littered with treatments not supported by vetted published studies, some independent experts have their doubts.Dr. Anthony Romeo, the chief of orthopedics at the Rothman Institute in New York and a former team physician for the Chicago White Sox who also worked with the Chicago Bulls, said he would maintain “a healthy level of skepticism” about Orreco’s work until it reveals more about the biomarkers it studies and the data being gathered.”I would be cautious and say it’s investigational,” Romeo said. “It’s a very interesting area of research and we applaud the efforts that they’re making. But at this time nothing supplants outstanding coaches and trainers that can do a visual analysis and understand their athletes from the traditional methods to know whether they’re training too hard or too little.”“At some point,” Romeo said of Orreco, “they’re going to have to share their data in a way that it can be repeated so that we know it’s true.”Said Dr. Robert Dimeff, a team physician for the Dallas Stars of the N.H.L. and a past president of the American Medical Society for Sports Medicine: “I think this is a research-based tool at this point in time, but I don’t think it’s ready for prime time. What they’re doing is something that in 10 years from now we may say, ‘Wow, this is absolutely great information.’“We can’t say that right now. But what they’re doing is trying to put some science behind recommendations and I think that’s very admirable.”Despite such skepticism, Cuban remains one of the biggest proponents of Orreco’s work. After watching an interview in which the openly data-hungry Cuban discussed his growing fascination with artificial intelligence, Moore wrote to Cuban before the 2016-17 season with a pitch that Orreco could “optimize performance, accelerate recovery and prolong careers” by using “high-end computing to find patterns in the data.”“Our job is to help the Mavericks make better decisions,” Moore said.Cuban was quickly sold.“Managing player load is as important as understanding traditional basketball analytics,’’ Cuban said. “Causation is always more valuable that correlation.”Although the Mavericks are hardly alone in embracing bioanalytics, they are on a very short list of top-level professional sports franchises that are willing to ignore the ultra-secretive norm and publicly acknowledge its work with Orreco.Aside from the Mavericks, only Newcastle United of the English Premier League has acknowledged being an Orreco customer. Through a person with knowledge of the contract, The Times confirmed that the Knicks are the other N.B.A. team to use Orreco as extensively as the Mavericks.Orreco also consults with a handful of individual players, including Wilson Chandler of the Philadelphia 76ers and Quincy Pondexter of the San Antonio Spurs.The company, though, said it could not discuss the Knicks, or the two Major League Baseball clubs and another Premier League soccer team it counts as clients.Smith cited Quest Diagnostics’ Blueprint Fit as another top practitioner in the field that he suspects has an N.B.A. clientele and acknowledged that several of his peers within the league are aware of what Dallas is doing, and asking lots of questions.“And I think there will be more,” Smith said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinCarmelo Anthony will finally secure his escape from the Houston Rockets on Tuesday when the Rockets complete a trade that sends the former All-Star to the Chicago Bulls, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.The Bulls have no intention of playing Anthony but could elect to keep him until the Feb. 7 trade deadline and use him in another potential deal, according to the person, who was not authorized to discuss the trade publicly.The trade with Chicago, which is also expected to include some minor draft compensation, could not be executed Monday because the league office was closed in observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day. But the Rockets, as first reported by ESPN, offered an undisclosed amount of cash to convince the Bulls to take on the remainder of Anthony’s $2.4 million salary for this season, which will result in a luxury-tax savings of $2.6 million for Houston.Anthony, 34, has been in search of a new team since Nov. 11, when The New York Times first reported that the former Knick’s time with the Rockets was coming to an end after just 10 games together.Houston formally announced on Nov. 15 that the sides were “parting ways” but has kept Anthony on the roster for the past two months in hopes of trading him rather than outright releasing him, thus avoiding the luxury-tax hit.Whether Anthony stays on Chicago’s roster until Feb. 7 or becomes a free agent sooner than that, his challenge remains finding a team willing to give him another shot after failed stints with Houston and the Oklahoma City Thunder. Concerns about Anthony’s defense and his ability to shed his ball-dominant ways of the past and adapt to a catch-and-shoot role have resulted in scant interest in him despite his accomplished résumé.The Times reported last month that the Los Angeles Lakers, the Philadelphia 76ers and the Charlotte Hornets are among the teams that have weighed but ultimately resisted pursuing Anthony since the Rockets sent him away from the team.The Rockets spent the weekend trying to find a new home for Anthony via trade to create a roster spot for the veteran big man Kenneth Faried, who signed with Houston on Monday after securing a contract buyout from the Nets on Friday.Trades can happen on weekends and holidays but only if the league office is given notice that a deal is in the works by 6 p.m. on the most recent business day. As a result, Houston was forced to release the swingman James Nunnally to create the roster room to add Faried.The Rockets are hoping Faried can help fill the void created by a thumb injury to starting center Clint Capela, who is expected to be sidelined for at least a month after undergoing surgery last week.Advertisement
Filip Peraić needed a career boost. He found one by drawing Harden, the Houston Rockets guard, in profile over and over and over again.CreditCreditFilip PeraićSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanFilip Peraić was in a rut. A freelance illustrator bored of his contract work, he had hoped to reignite his love of art through a long-term personal project.It made sense that Peraić, 30, who is from the basketball-obsessed city of Zadar, Croatia, would come up with a project related to the N.B.A. But instead of taking a broad look at his favorite players, or honoring his country’s many N.B.A. stars, Peraić decided to do something more specific — remarkably so. His project would consist entirely of portraits of James Harden’s head in profile, from the right side of the Houston Rockets star’s face.Suddenly Harden, who is known for his distinctive beard, existed in portrait form — as a tribute to Jackson Pollock in one of Peraić’s works and as a tribute to Wassily Kandinsky in another. There was one in the style of a medical illustration, and another that was a map of the fictional country of Hardenia. His beard became a giant whale, and it took on the distinctive curls of a Greek philosopher. In one particularly disturbing image, Harden’s face was replicated with human hair. In all, Peraić’s project, which came to be known as James Harden Illustrated, had 26 images, each one seemingly more bizarre than the previous one.“The best portraits are when I surprise myself,” Peraić said in a telephone interview. “I’m thinking about James Harden’s head constantly — it’s my passion project.”With Harden in the middle of a remarkable season, in which he is almost certain to finish with the highest scoring average of any player in N.B.A. history besides Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan, Peraić is set to release another batch of the illustrations. The first was posted Thursday, and there will be one released each week for the next seven weeks, thus carrying Peraić’s followers into the playoffs.On Tuesday, in hopes of showcasing the existing work in advance of the new batch, Peraić tweeted out a thread of the 26 original images, which were completed from 2013 to 2017. The thread caught fire and was shared and favorited thousands of times.Peraić said the attention the posts received was gratifying, but he was especially excited by certain people who noticed them.He referred to a few journalists who shared the post, then mentioned two people who favorited the thread: Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Rockets, and Kirk Goldsberry, a former San Antonio Spurs executive. “That’s really cool because as an N.B.A. geek, I follow these people constantly,” Peraić said. “To see them reacting to my work is really rewarding.”Then there was Harden. He was once interviewed on TNT with a poster of Peraić’s portraits behind him. But other than that, Peraić did not know how Harden felt about the work. That changed Wednesday afternoon. Harden tweeted six of the images, reacting to each with emoji. “Yo @filiperaic,” Harden wrote in the first of the series of tweets, “these are dope!”Beyond rubbing elbows online with his N.B.A. heroes, Peraić has experienced tangible career benefits from the project. Recently, he worked on a series of images for the singer-songwriter Leon Bridges, and while the images may not have Harden’s beard in them, they are clearly in the same vein as the Harden project.The rut he had found himself in career-wise, it seemed, had created an opportunity.“I started this project just for my own pleasure and to try something else because I wasn’t satisfied with the kind of work I was getting,” Peraić said. “Now art directors come up to me and say, ‘We want this kind of James Harden portrait.’”Amusingly enough, considering how much time Peraić spends thinking about Harden, the Rockets guard is not, and has never been, the illustrator’s favorite player. He mentioned living near the city in Croatia where Drazen Petrovic, the Hall of Famer, grew up, and said he had always preferred Manu Ginobili and Kobe Bryant over Harden.“People think that I’m obsessed with James Harden, and that’s really not the case,” he said. “I just wanted to pick someone that had an interesting face that was easily recognizable.”Of the original batch of portraits, Peraić said his favorites were one comprising a single line and another in which Harden’s profile had morphed into a thermal image of an approaching hurricane.“I like repetition, and I’m a bit stubborn,” he said when asked how he could keep coming back to the same image. “When I made a couple of them I thought, ‘This is really interesting.’ It’s a challenge for me.”The images can take anywhere from a few hours to a few days to complete, with one in which Harden’s profile was recreated using only flowers and other vegetation representing the high-water mark for effort so far. The project requires enough time that it has regularly run up against Peraić’s contract work, which forced the recent pause in his output. He acknowledged that of the eight works planned for the new batch, only six are complete so far.When he finishes the final two, that will bring the project to 34 portraits. Until the next one.“I feel that this is a never-ending project,” Peraić said. “Maybe if James Harden shaves his beard, that would be the end.”Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bykeeping scoreHarden’s 57 points against Memphis accounted for more than half of his team’s total helping make up for his lack of a supporting cast.By Benjamin HoffmanNo Chris Paul. No Eric Gordon. No Clint Capela. No problem. The Houston Rockets still have James Harden.In a mind-boggling performance, Harden and his supporting cast — if you can call it that — managed to beat the Memphis Grizzlies by 112-94 at Houston’s Toyota Center, with Harden scoring 57 points in 34 minutes.It was the 17th game in a row in which Harden scored at least 30 points — a feat previously accomplished in a single season by only Wilt Chamberlain — and it was Harden’s third game of 50 or more points this season. No other player has more than one.Coach Mike D’Antoni may have recorded the 600th win of his N.B.A. career in the game, but he was more interested in making sure people recognized the greatness of Harden’s feat.“What he just did, we kind of take it for granted a little bit,” D’Antoni told reporters. “It’s like, ‘Oh, look at that, isn’t that cute?’ It’s 57!” Harden, however, tried to keep the focus on Houston continuing to climb in the standings, and making up for Sunday’s loss to Orlando.“I don’t know if it was an emotional lift,” Harden told reporters of Monday’s win, “but I know it’s crunchtime in the sense that we’ve got three starters out and guys have got to pick up the slack. There’s no excuse.”While the outburst was hardly unexpected for Harden, who is now averaging an N.B.A.-leading 34.8 points a game, the Rockets’ personnel situation made it stand out. Paul has been out with an injured hamstring since Dec. 20 and Gordon has been out with an injured knee since Dec. 29. Houston’s injury report then took on what seemed like a crippling blow earlier on Monday when it was revealed that Capela, the team’s center — and the most frequent recipient of Harden’s assists — would be out for four to six weeks as a result of ligament damage in his right thumb.That list of injuries left Harden starting alongside the forgettable quartet of P.J. Tucker, Nene, Austin Rivers and Danuel House Jr. No matter, as Harden joined Kemba Walker as the only players to score more than half of their team’s points in a game this season.Harden was hot from the start, setting a Rockets record with 36 points in the first half, and he succeeded all game with his typical combination of 3-pointers (6 for 15) and free-throws (17 for 18). He also led all players in the game with nine rebounds and committed just five turnovers despite his outrageous level of usage.The last time Harden scored fewer than 30 points was Dec. 11 in Houston’s win over the Portland Trail Blazers, and he just barely missed the feat that night, with 29 points on 10 of 21 shooting. Since then he has averaged 41.3 points a game over the 17 games in which the Rockets, who got off to a poor start this season, have gone 13-4.In the 17 games, Harden has topped 50 points twice and 40 points 10 times. He has also recorded five triple-doubles.While Harden’s performance on Monday broke his tie with Kobe Bryant and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar for the N.B.A.’s longest single-season streak of 30-plus points by a player not named Chamberlain, Harden has a long way to go before catching Wilt.Chamberlain had 30-point streaks, of 20, 25, 31 and 65 games in his career, according to Basketball-Reference.com. The longest one, which came during the 1961-62 season, is likely an unbreakable record, but it comes with an amusing footnote: In Chamberlain’s last game before the streak started, he was held to 28 points in a loss to Bill Russell’s Boston Celtics. When the streak finally ended more than three months later, Chamberlain was held to 26 points — in a loss to Russell’s Celtics.As it currently stands, though, Harden does not appear to have a foil that can be his version of Russell, so there is no telling when this streak will end.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The Los Angeles Lakers described last weekend’s N.B.A. All-Star break as an opportunity for a much-needed reset, with the hope that they could ultimately make a playoff push after spending a few days apart. None of it sounded very convincing.But when the team reconvened for practice on Wednesday morning, LeBron James said his level of intensity had been “activated,” as if he were a superhero who had flipped a switch. He does not usually activate himself this early in the season, he said, but the Lakers need all of him now — in large part because they had lost so much ground when he was sidelined for about a month with a groin injury.“We would have loved to have had success when I was out, but we didn’t, so this is where we are right now,” James said.And when asked how he would elevate the play of his younger teammates, he put it simply: “We don’t have a choice.”In other words, it was sink or swim for the Lakers before their game against the Houston Rockets on Thursday night, and there would be no lifeguard.For one night, at least, the Lakers swam. They were cohesive enough to come away with a 111-106 victory against one of the better teams in the Western Conference. For one night, at least, the Lakers showed that they could erase a 19-point deficit by playing solid defense and making their free throws. For one night, at least, the Lakers could depend on players like Brandon Ingram (27 points, 13 rebounds) and Kyle Kuzma (18 points) to deliver in a game that the team really needed to win.The question now is whether the Lakers, who at 29-29 are the very definition of average, can build off it. Consistency has not been their hallmark.“It can give us some momentum that we need,” Coach Luke Walton said, “or it can do nothing. It depends how we respond to this.”Not so long ago, the Lakers had a similarly galvanizing win — or so it seemed.It was Feb. 7, and before the league’s trade deadline Magic Johnson, the team’s president of basketball operations, had failed in his quest to ship nearly half of the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans in exchange for the All-Star center Anthony Davis. It was a huge soap opera, and the Lakers responded in surprising fashion: by going out that night and defeating the Boston Celtics — on the road, no less.The win, though, was fool’s gold. The Lakers got pulverized by the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, then hobbled into the All-Star break with a loss to the Atlanta Hawks — a performance so devoid of energy that it seemed to signal a dysfunctional locker room, and maybe even one that was beyond repair.The team was below .500.Walton encouraged his players to reflect and refocus over the break. For James, that meant returning to Los Angeles in playoff mode — much earlier than he would prefer.But this is unfamiliar territory for James, a three-time champion who has made 13 straight trips to the playoffs and eight straight appearances in the N.B.A. finals. Now, with an inexperienced batch of teammates on the Lakers, he is merely fighting to lead them into the postseason.“I’m all about being uncomfortable,” he said this week. “I love being uncomfortable. I fall in love with being uncomfortable, so this is another uncomfortable thing for me, and I love it.”Then he must have loved what happened against the Rockets (33-25), who built a gaping lead in the third quarter behind James Harden. But the Lakers dominated the fourth quarter by limiting the Rockets to 36.8 percent shooting and forcing six turnovers. James finished with 29 points, 11 rebounds and 6 assists.“He’s had more of a serious focus on his face, about him, the last two days, even in the practice facility,” Walton said, adding: “I think he recognizes where we’re at and the sense of urgency we need to play with.”The Lakers also benefited from the fresh presence of Reggie Bullock, a versatile wing whom they acquired from the Detroit Pistons at the trade deadline. Bullock scored 14 points and defended the Rockets’ James Harden for long stretches. For a team that lacks much experience, Bullock could make a difference moving forward.“He’s a vet,” James said. “It’s great to have a shooter of his caliber, of his size; his competitive nature out on the floor. He was big for us.”The Lakers left Staples Center two and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final playoff spot in the West. But James expressed supreme confidence as the team prepared to visit the Pelicans on Saturday.“I like where I’m at,” he said. “I will love where I’m at in the next few games, and I believe — continue to get better and better.”As for his teammates — well, that is up to them.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSTONY BROOK, N.Y. — The Rio Grande Valley Vipers are G League champions for the third time.Isaiah Hartenstein scored 30 points, Dakarai Tucker and Michael Frazier each added 24 and the Vipers — the Houston Rockets' affiliate — never trailed on the way to beating the Long Island Nets 129-112 on Friday night in Game 3 of the G League Finals.Gary Payton II added 17 for the Vipers. Rio Grande Valley won the series 2-1, and added this title to ones the franchise claimed in 2010 and 2013 when what's now the G League was known as the NBA Development League.A 24-2 run in the second quarter put the game away for the Vipers, who lost Game 1 of the title series before rallying to win the title.Hartenstein made a pair of 3-pointers in an early 8-0 run that put the Vipers up 30-16, and the barrage in the second quarter left no doubt. Jordan Johnson scored 10 points in the 24-2 spurt, including the first seven — those coming in a span of 52 seconds.Alan Williams scored 26 points, Dzanan Musa had 24 and Jordan McLaughlin added 22 for Long Island. The Nets, Brooklyn's affiliate, and the Vipers were among four teams who were tied for the G League's best regular-season record at 34-16.The G League had 27 teams this season, and will grow to 28 next season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe rapper was not pleased that the Minnesota Timberwolves mocked his performance in Milwaukee. He put a curse on the team.By Benjamin HoffmanSports curses come in all shapes and sizes. They can involve livestock, soup commercials, magazine covers and, frequently, the selling of star players.In recent years, the rapper Lil B has made a name for himself in the sports realm with his curses — most notably on James Harden of the Houston Rockets — but it appears he has some new competition: the rapper Ja Rule.It all started on Saturday, when Ja Rule was performing at halftime of a game between the Minnesota Timberwolves and the host Milwaukee Bucks.The performance came on the 17th anniversary of Ja Rule’s collaboration with Ashanti, “Always Be On Time,” hitting No. 1 on Billboard’s Hot 100. But the show came under criticism immediately because of a somewhat misleading video of the crowd reaction and another one showing an unexpected guest: Giannis Antetokounmpo, the Bucks’ star forward, who came out to begin warming up for the second half while Ja Rule was still performing on the court along with a group of dancers.The rapper initially shrugged off the criticism, but his tone changed when the Timberwolves decided to mock the performance on social media. In a post to Twitter, the team said “We too were hustled, scammed, bamboozled, hood winked, lead astray!!!” The post was a reference to an earlier post by Ja Rule about his role in the ill-fated Fyre Festival, a luxury music event in the Bahamas that failed spectacularly in 2017. The rapper was not amused.The potential effects of this particular curse are unclear, though. The Timberwolves have existed as a franchise for 30 seasons and not only have not won a championship, but they have only made it out of the first round of the playoffs once — in 2004. They are 28-31, putting them just outside legitimate playoff contention, and the notion that Karl-Anthony Towns is departing anytime soon — as Ja Rule suggested with “AND KAT IS LEAVING!!!” — seems unlikely, as he has signed a five-year contract extension that kicks in next year and guarantees him nearly $160 million.Of course, logic does not have to play a role in sports curses. The Chicago Cubs endured the so-called Curse of the Billy Goat for more than 70 years after the team asked the owner of the Billy Goat Tavern, William Sianis, to leave a game because his goat was bothering fans. That the team had not won a World Series in more than 30 years before the episode was treated as mostly irrelevant. Other popular curses have included one in which the athletes endorsing Campbell’s Chunky Soup seemed to become injured at an extraordinary rate. Another claimed that athletes had their performance fall off after appearing on the cover of Sports Illustrated.The most famous, of course, is the Curse of the Bambino, which doomed the Boston Red Sox to lose after selling Babe Ruth to the Yankees in December 1919. The jinx is credited by some with keeping the Red Sox from winning a World Series for 86 years, despite the first year of that stretch coming before the team sold Ruth, and the fact that the curse was barely mentioned in popular culture before George Vecsey wrote a column about it for The New York Times in 1986. Dan Shaughnessy of the Boston Globe also wrote a book in 1990 that popularized the phrase.At the very least, the talk of Ja Rule’s curse was good news for Lil B, who spent part of the weekend trending on Twitter. He celebrated by retweeting various people saying Ja Rule was simply stealing a tactic that Lil B had already perfected.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFor Dwyane Wade's final NBA game, where else would his so-called Banana Boat Crew members be but on hand to see it?Wade ended his 16-year career with a bang Wednesday night, producing his fifth career triple-double as he amassed 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in the Miami Heat's 113-94 loss to the Brooklyn Nets.Sitting courtside to watch Wade in his final NBA game were his longtime friends and fellow NBA stars LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony.Of course they would be there, James said during the game. James was shut down for several of the Lakers' final games and Paul's Houston Rockets played their final regular-season game Tuesday night. Anthony did not sign with another NBA team after his release from the Chicago Bulls this season after he was traded by the Rockets."Listen, we all started this journey together," James told Fox Sports Southeast. "Obviously CP came into the league a couple years after us, but we have a brotherhood that is just so much more than basketball. CP played last night, we had our last regular-season game last night, and Melo is right here in New York, so we kind of made the plan and made the decision to come up here."The friends often travel together during the summer and picked up the Banana Boat Crew moniker after photos of them riding in one circulated on social media in 2016.James, who won two NBA titles with Wade in Miami, two of the three Wade won altogether, was asked about favorite memories of his friendship with Wade. James said a good answer to that would take a while."I mean, we'd be here all night talking. We'd be here all night talking about the best memories, or the most fond memories I have of D-Wade."The plane rides, the bus rides, the hotels when we get to the city we'd go to the hotel room and just chop it up, the dinners we had on the road, everything we did was always genuine. (There was) always love, and we always wanted the best for one another, no matter the good or the bad."I will say the most founding part was when we lost (to Dallas in 2011). Because, without '11, there's no (2013), no (2012 championship) banners hanging up in (AmericanAirlines Arena). That's what made us. That's what made our team."It's been an unbelievable journey for my guy, and I'm happy to be here for the last little part of the road before the train comes to a stop."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLeBron James, sidelined since Dec. 25 with a groin strain, will remain out until at least next week, the Los Angeles Lakers announced Wednesday. The team said in a statement that James did not travel with the Lakers on their current road trip for games against the Oklahoma City Thunder on Thursday and the Houston Rockets on Saturday.The Lakers have struggled without James — and without Rajon Rondo, their backup point guard, who was also injured in the Lakers’ road win over the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day. Entering Thursday, the Lakers had gone 4-7 without those two players and were tied with the Sacramento Kings for eighth place in the Western Conference standings.[On Pro Basketball: The Warriors Prepare to Add Another Star: DeMarcus Cousins]After their current trip, the Lakers will return home to play the Warriors on Monday — which, incidentally, is slated to be Game 2 of the Warriors’ well-publicized DeMarcus Cousins experiment as he returns from surgery on his Achilles’ tendon — but it is highly unlikely that James will be available. The Lakers said in their statement that James “has been cleared to return to practice commencing next week, and progress toward a return to game play thereafter.”James, 34, had been fairly indestructible thus far in his career. He appeared in all 82 regular-season games for the Cleveland Cavaliers last season. But while the Lakers initially listed James as “day to day” after he underwent a magnetic resonance imaging exam last month, the team has been handling him — and his eventual return — with caution.James was playing some of the best basketball of his career before he got hurt, averaging 27.3 points, 8.3 rebounds and 7.1 assists a game. A four-time N.B.A. most valuable player, he is in the first year of a four-year contract worth $154 million.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherHere’s a fact that is pretty obvious. When the point spread on a game is big, the favorite usually wins.In the 39 N.B.A. games since 2003 with a spread of 18 or higher, the favorite won them all, according to the Teamrankings.com database.It wasn’t quite an 18-point spread when the Golden State Warriors faced the Phoenix Suns on Sunday night, but it was close. Depending on where you gamble, the Warriors were favored by 16 to 17 points. Games in that range are still won by the favorites 97 percent of the time.Few should have been surprised by the big line on Sunday. The Suns are bad, going into the game with a record of 15-52, worse than anyone but the Knicks. And the Warriors are the Warriors. Not only that, but the game was being played at Golden State.The chance of an upset had shrunk from microscopic to infinitesimal at the 2:58 mark of the first quarter when the Warriors led by 16 points. A ho-hum blowout seemed to be in the offing.The Suns won the game.Devin Booker had 37 points and 11 assists in the shocking victory. “We came in, we fought, we were down 16,” forward Kelly Oubre Jr. told The Arizona Republic. “We still fought. We came up with a big win against the best team in the N.B.A.”The Suns are actually on a bit of a roll, having won five of their last seven. Don’t start checking the playoff race though: Those wins came immediately after a franchise-worst 17-game losing streak.And cynical Suns fans don’t have to worry either. The team is still three games away from slipping out of the bottom three, the teams that have an equal chance of nabbing the No. 1 pick in the draft, probably Zion Williamson of Duke.It was the first Suns win over the Warriors since November 2014. That was 18 straight games of futility against Golden State, the longest active losing streak by one team against another.Klay Thompson of the Warriors (10-for-22 for 28 points) had a curious take afterward, pointing a finger at the home fans. “I expect our crowd to be a little more into it,” he said. “At least you could stand up or something when we make a good play, especially at the beginning. We need that energy, especially at this time of year. Its hard to conjure up energy every single night.”The Warriors, who have the third best record in the league but are still the heavy championship favorites, had better get some energy in a hurry. They now go on a four-game road trip with a much tougher lineup of foes, starting with the Houston Rockets and Oklahoma City Thunder. Their top seed in the West — they are currently a game and a half ahead of the Denver Nuggets — could be under threat.The Suns will miss the playoffs for the ninth straight year (the second longest streak after the Kings). But they will always have the night they won as 17-point underdogs. Outright.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHere are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Marc SteinJoshua Kushner, the venture capitalist whose older brother is President Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, became a minority shareholder of the N.B.A.’s Memphis Grizzlies earlier this season, according to four people familiar with the matter.Jesse Derris, a spokesman for Joshua Kushner, confirmed the purchase, as did a spokesman for the N.B.A.“Brandon Arrindell and Joshua Kushner recently, in their respective individual capacities, purchased minority stakes in the Grizzlies,” said a team spokesman in a statement.Kushner, 33, agreed with Grizzlies owner Robert Pera to purchase a share of the team as a limited partner in late 2018, according to two of the people, who weren’t authorized to discuss the partnership publicly. The transaction closed at the end of February.Neither Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, nor his father, Charles, who spent 14 months in prison for illegal campaign donations, tax evasion and witness tampering, is involved in the Grizzlies, according to the people. However, Joshua Kushner’s wealth can be traced to his family’s real estate fortune, which funded other investments he has made. Members of the Kushner family have previously lodged unsuccessful bids to buy the Miami Marlins, Los Angeles Dodgers and the Nets when the team was in New Jersey.According to The Daily Memphian, which first reported the agreement, Brandon Arrindell, a principal at a Memphis investment management firm, also purchased a stake in the team.The Kushner investment comes at a time when the relationship between top N.B.A. players and the White House is increasingly tense. No N.B.A. team has visited the White House since Trump became president. The N.B.A. superstars LeBron James and Stephen Curry have engaged in public spats with Trump; James has referred to him as “a bum.”Joshua Kushner’s politics are very different from his brother’s. Joshua Kushner is a lifelong Democrat and said he did not vote for Trump in 2016. He participated in both the first Women’s March and the March for Our Lives protests.The Kushners, especially Jared, have close ties to N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver. Silver attends sporting events with Jared Kushner, he told The New Yorker, and Kushner advised the N.B.A. on a real estate search. Kushner, who owned The New York Observer before selling it to his family’s trust, also once ordered the deletion of a benign article about Silver purchasing a new apartment, according to BuzzFeed.Joshua Kushner is a mainstay of the New York tech scene, founding the investment firm Thrive Capital, which has $2.5 billion under management, and cofounding Oscar Health, a health start-up. He was brought into the Grizzlies ownership group by Pera, who is also part of the New York tech scene. The deal stemmed from an unusual arrangement Pera had with previous limited partners of the Grizzlies.Pera agreed to purchase the Memphis Grizzlies from Michael Heisley in June 2012 for $377 million. Pera was 34, and made his wealth as the founder of Ubiquiti Networks, a New York-based wireless technology company. He founded Ubiquiti in 2005, and took it public in 2011.But Pera, despite holding a controlling interest in the Grizzlies, purchased only about 25 percent of the franchise and put up just $45 million of his own money, according to The Memphis Flyer. Pera put together a large ownership group to pay for the rest. Steve Kaplan, a Los Angeles investor, and Daniel Straus, the founder of multiple health care companies, each bought a stake worth roughly 14 percent, while a consortium of more than 20 local investors bought the rest.The agreement between Pera, Kaplan and Straus included an unusual buy-sell clause that allowed both Kaplan and Straus to exercise a right to purchase control of the team after five years. Once exercised, one or both of the limited partners could set a new valuation for the franchise. At that price, Pera had to either buy their shares or sell them his.In November 2017, both Kaplan and Straus triggered the clause. After negotiations between the three were unsuccessful, Pera announced in April 2018 that he would retain his majority ownership. ESPN reported he had bought his former partners out at a $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion valuation of the franchise.That meant Pera was forced to raise roughly $375 million — about the same amount the entire team was valued at in 2012 — to purchase the Straus and Kaplan shares. It seems he brought on minority investors to help shoulder that financial commitment.The Grizzlies have slumped to a record of 29-42 after a promising start and will miss the N.B.A. playoffs for the second consecutive season. In February, Memphis traded its former All-Star center Marc Gasol to Toronto and is widely expected to trade the last remaining link to the club’s playoff successes — Mike Conley — in the off-season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSpeaking to local media around midday Thursday, Memphis Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said he hadn't talked with team owner Robert Pera yet but he could make one declaration: head coach J.B. Bickerstaff would return for a second season.Two hours later, that decision had changed, and several other moves were made.The Grizzlies fired Bickerstaff and demoted Wallace to a scouting role.Memphis also named Jason Wexler as team president with "oversight of both business and basketball operations," the team said in a statement. The Grizzlies promoted Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations, with former VP John Hollinger reassigned to a senior advisory position."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a reenergized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."After David Fizdale was fired, Bickerstaff was promoted to interim head coach in November 2017, then given the job permanently last May 1. The team went 15-48 under Bickerstaff in 2017-18 and 33-49 this season.The Grizzlies traded franchise stalwart Marc Gasol at the February deadline, and their shake-ups might not be over.Veteran point guard Mike Conley said this week he doesn't want to stick around Memphis to endure a rebuild and is ready to turn the franchise over to youngster Jaren Jackson Jr.Selected by the Grizzlies with the No. 4 overall pick of the 2007 draft, Conley has participated in the playoffs in seven seasons, with four of them resulting in a first-round ouster."I want to win a championship, No. 1," he told reporters. "I love Jaren Jackson Jr. I've done a lot of that, been a part of it. At some point you have to pass that torch."Conley is due to make $32.5 million next season.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNASHVILLE, Tenn. — Jerry Stackhouse had a couple interviews already lined up for possible NBA head coaching jobs. He says he decided to take a college job because of his relationship with Vanderbilt's new athletic director and the opportunity to turnaround the Commodores men's program.Stackhouse said during a news conference on Monday that he loves is teaching and coaching basketball, and he wants to bring back Memorial magic to the oldest arena in the Southeastern Conference.His lone head coaching experience is two years in the G League where he got to know a fellow North Carolina graduate in Malcolm Turner, who was the league's president. Turner took over as athletic director at Vanderbilt on Feb. 1.Stackhouse has been an assistant with the NBA's Memphis Grizzlies this season, and the 18-year NBA veteran also was an assistant in Toronto.Vanderbilt is coming off the worst season ever at 9-23, finishing the season on a 20-game skid.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSpeaking to local media around midday Thursday, Memphis Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said he hadn't talked with team owner Robert Pera yet, but he could make one declaration: Head coach J.B. Bickerstaff would return for a second season. Two hours later, that decision had changed, and several other moves were made.The Grizzlies fired Bickerstaff and demoted Wallace to a scouting role.Memphis also named Jason Wexler as team president with "oversight of both business and basketball operations," the team said in a statement. The Grizzlies promoted Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations, with former VP John Hollinger reassigned to a senior advisory position."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a reenergized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."--Sacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said.Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs. The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final postseason spot in the West.--Larry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed to part ways."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.--Cardiologists have cleared Chicago Bulls forward Lauri Markkanen to resume full basketball activities, the team announced.Markkanen, 21, experienced extreme fatigue and an accelerated heart rate during a game in Toronto on March 26. A battery of tests conducted at Chicago's Rush University Medical Center and Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore determined that dehydration and nutrient deficiency caused his symptoms.The 7-footer missed the rest of the regular season, finishing his second campaign with averages of 18.7 points and 9.0 rebounds in 52 games.--The Phoenix Suns officially named James Jones as general manager, giving him control over all basketball operations for the team.The Suns also added Jeff Bower as senior vice president of basketball operations and retained Trevor Bukstein as assistant general manager. Both will report to Jones, the team announced in a statement.Jones, 38, who played 14 seasons in the league and won three NBA championships, had served as Phoenix's VP of basketball operations the past two seasons. He shared GM duties this past season with Bukstein.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMEMPHIS, Tenn. — The Memphis Grizzlies started the offseason Thursday with plenty of questions to answer, then controlling owner Robert Pera added to the to-do list by firing coach J.B. Bickerstaff as part of a front-office shake-up that demoted general manager Chris Wallace to scout.The Grizzlies announced the moves after both Bickerstaff and Wallace spoke to reporters following a second straight season outside the playoffs. After a 12-5 start, Memphis plummeted and finished 33-49, tied with New Orleans and Dallas.Wallace had said earlier that Bickerstaff would be returning after doing a "terrific job." But Pera didn't agree and restructured the front office a few hours later."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a re-energized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."Bickerstaff was named interim coach in November 2017 after the Grizzlies fired David Fizdale . He was given the job without the interim title last May. Now Memphis is looking for a fourth head coach since choosing not to renew Lionel Hollins' contract after he led the Grizzlies to their lone Western Conference final appearance in 2013.The Grizzlies also announced that Jason Wexler will be president of the Grizzlies overseeing both basketball and business operations, and Zachary Z. Kleiman replaces John Hollinger as executive vice president of basketball operations with Hollinger moving to an advisory role. The Grizzlies are keeping former player Tayshaun Prince as a special adviser."No words," Grizzlies veteran point guard Mike Conley wrote on Twitter.Memphis began this season with Wallace predicting the Grizzlies would be a playoff team.The Grizzlies wound up trading away center Marc Gasol at the trade deadline. With other trades and injuries that left nine rotation players benched with injuries for Wednesday night's season finale in a 132-117 win over Golden State, Memphis tied its own NBA record for most players used in one season — set last season — again at 28.Memphis also set the NBA mark with 20 different leading scorers, topping the old record of 16 set by the Knicks in 2014-15.While Memphis kept Conley after a frenzy of speculation about his future before the trade deadline, that chatter is about to start again. And Conley, 31, sounds ready to consider his best interest about what happens next with Memphis in full-blown rebuilding mode."I honestly don't think that would be the ideal situation," Conley said. "Ideally, I don't think anybody in my situation would want to go through that again, (since) I don't know how many years I have left."Conley helped his potential value by averaging 24 points and 6.5 assists over his final 16 games. Conley still has two seasons left on the max deal he signed in July 2016,."I'm pretty much getting ready for it, getting ready for that storm ...," Conley said of the coming speculation. "In the last few weeks, it's become more and more like knocking on the door. It's right around the corner. This stuff is going to fire up again. Rumors, all that stuff is going to pop up."Wallace oversaw the signing of Chandler Parsons to a four-year, $94 million deal that has seen the forward play 95 games combined over the first three seasons.The Grizzlies spent much of the season trying to finish outside the top eight spots in the draft to finally pay off a 2015 midseason trade for Jeff Green that still requires a first-round pick to be sent to Boston. The selection is protected if Memphis finished anywhere from No. 1 to 8 in the draft, and the Grizzlies want to fulfill that obligation this June.Memphis wound up in a three-way tie with Dallas and New Orleans for the 7-9 position. Whether the Grizzlies land in the ninth position or with the selection protected won't be known until after the May 14 draft lottery.The next Grizzlies coach will have Jaren Jackson Jr. who showed flashes as the fourth overall draft pick last summer before a deep thigh bruise sidelined him after 58 games. Dillon Brooks also was limited to 18 games by injuries, and Kyle Anderson, signed to a four-year deal last summer, played only 43 games and will have surgery next week on his right shoulder.Jonas Valanciunas, acquired in the February trade for Gasol, has a $17.6 million player option next season.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Tech standout Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, announced Thursday he will forgo his last two seasons in Lubbock and declare for the 2019 NBA Draft.The 6-foot-5, 195-pound guard made the announcement during a press conference in Lubbock, Texas.Culver helped lead the Red Raiders to a share of the Big 12 regular-season title and was effective in this year's NCAA Tournament, where Texas Tech fell to Virginia 85-77 in overtime in the national championship game.On the season, Culver averaged 18.5 points, 6.4 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game while the Red Raiders set a school record with 31 wins.--Also announcing his plans to declare for the draft was 18-year-old Russian Nikita Mikhailovskii, according to a report by ESPN.The 6-foot-8, 180-pound wing is trying to become the first Russian player drafted since 2013 when Sergey Karasev was chosen with the 19th pick by the Cleveland Cavaliers.Mikhailovskii spent the past season playing in the mostly Russian VTB United League and FIBA Europe Cup, averaging 7.8 points in 16.8 minutes while shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range in 45 games.--The Memphis Grizzlies hired two former general managers to their front office, adding Rich Cho as vice president of strategy and Glen Grunwald as senior adviser.Cho is a former GM of the Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers, and Grunwald was GM of the New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors.The Grizzlies demoted former GM Chris Wallace to a scouting role in a flurry of moves last week, including the firing of head coach J.B. Bickerstaff and the promotion of Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations.--Los Angeles Clippers assistant general manager Trent Redden reportedly is close to interviewing for a senior front-office role with the New Orleans Pelicans.The Clippers gave the Pelicans permission to discuss the position with Redden, ESPN reported, citing league sources.David Griffin, the Pelicans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, worked closely with Redden when they with the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 2016 NBA championship season. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski noted that Griffin is expected to be "aggressive" in pursuing Redden.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMEMPHIS, Tenn. — Salah Mejri scored a career-high 19 points, including the tying basket in regulation and the first seven points of overtime as the Dallas Mavericks defeated the Memphis Grizzlies 129-127 on Sunday night.Mejri, who had nine rebounds and four blocks, was 7 of 12 from the floor and made a pair of 3-pointers. Trey Burke led the Mavericks with 24 points, 14 in the fourth quarter and overtime. Justin Jackson and Dorian Finney-Smith added 16 points apiece, and Finney-Smith grabbed 12 rebounds.Delon Wright had his second consecutive triple-double with 20 points, 13 rebounds and 12 assists for the Grizzlies. Justin Holiday paced Memphis with a career-high 30 points.Memphis led 112-110 after Ivan Rabb hit one of two free throws with 54.5 seconds left in regulation. After four misses inside by the Mavericks, they pulled even when Mejri scored on a putback with 1.5 seconds remaining.That sent the game to overtime after Memphis couldn't get a shot off before the horn sounded ending regulation.In the extra period, Mejri scored on a pair of dunks and then a 3-pointer to give Dallas an early lead. Memphis tied it but could never go ahead, and the Mavericks made three of four free throws in the final 15 seconds.Wright's 3-point attempt as the horn sounded was short.TIP-INSMavericks: Dirk Nowitzki, who only played in the first half, has appeared in 76 games against the Grizzlies — the most regular-season games against the franchise by any NBA player. He is also second in scoring against the Grizzlies behind Kobe Bryant. . Nowitzki grabbed his 10,000th defensive rebound in the first quarter, becoming the fifth NBA player to reach that milestone. . Dallas rookie Luka Doncic missed his fourth game in the last five with a variety of injuries, most notably a bruised right thigh.Grizzlies: A 3-pointer in the second quarter set a franchise record for 3s in a season with 768. The previous mark of 767 was set in 2016-17. ... Bruno Caboclo had a career-high 17 rebounds. His previous best was 13 on March 27 against Golden State. . Point guard Mike Conley missed his fourth straight game with left ankle soreness.UP NEXTMavericks: Host the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday in their final home game of the season.Grizzlies: Play at Detroit on Tuesday in their last road game.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDETROIT — Andre Drummond had 20 points and 17 rebounds and Ish Smith matched a season high with 22 points, helping the Detroit Pistons come back from a 22-point deficit to beat the Memphis Grizzlies 100-93 Tuesday night and cling to a spot in the playoffs.Detroit can clinch a postseason bid by closing the regular season with a win Wednesday night at New York.The Pistons put their postseason position in peril by losing four straight before rallying to beat the short-handed Grizzlies.Detroit star Blake Griffin was limited to five points and two rebounds in 18-plus minutes, barely playing in the second half because of his injured left knee.Luke Kennard scored 15 points off the bench and Reggie Jackson had 12 points before going to the bench as Smith flourished in the final quarter.Detroit opened the fourth with a 16-3 run to pull within three points. Smith made a game-tying 3-pointer and a go-ahead jumper midway through the quarter.Drummond made two free throws with 2:33 left to put the Pistons up 91-89. Smith made a jumper to give Detroit a five-point lead with 50 seconds left and a runner to put it ahead 97-93 with 28 seconds remaining.Delon Wright and Bruno Caboclo each scored 15 points for the Grizzlies, who used just four reserves with banged-up players such as Mike Conley, Joakim Noah and rookie Jaren Jackson out with injuries.Even though Detroit had a lot to play for — its first playoff berth in three years and second in a decade — the Grizzlies played with more effort and led 32-20 after the first quarter and 57-38 at halftime.The Pistons picked up the intensity in the third quarter, outscoring Memphis by four to cut their deficit to 79-64.TIP-INSGrizzlies: Tyler Zeller fouled out midway through the fourth quarter with 13 points and six reboundsPistons: Team owner Tom Gores attended the game, cheering for his team and complaining about calls to officials. Gores hosted 40 college students as part of the Flint Promise scholarship program, which he has funded in part with $1 million.UP NEXTGrizzlies: Close regular season against Golden State on Wednesday.Pistons: End regular season at New York on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDwyane Wade was hoping to extend his legendary career into at least four postseason games.Instead, Wade's career will end Wednesday night when the Heat visit the playoff-bound Brooklyn Nets, who can clinch the sixth seed in the Eastern Conference.Wade, 37, announced his retirement on Sept 16 before training camp began, and this season has been a farewell tour filled with a few magical moments and some postgame jersey exchanges.Despite the good feelings of celebrating Wade's storied career, which began as the No. 5 overall draft pick in 2003 and includes NBA championships in 2006, 2012 and 2013, the Heat were unable to do enough to reach the postseason this year.Miami was formally eliminated Tuesday night as Wade's career was celebrated in front of home fans for the final time. Wade scored 30 points in his first start of the season in a 122-99 rout of the Philadelphia 76ers, exited to a standing ovation in the final minute and exchanged jerseys with Jimmy Butler."I'm still just amazed, even after all these years," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "I've seen him go into his bag of tricks so many times and just compartmentalize. But I'm truly amazed that he was able to perform like that tonight."Wade's final moments in front of the home fans occurred after the Detroit Pistons (40-41) stormed back from a 22-point deficit to beat the Memphis Grizzlies and eliminate the Heat (39-42).Miami will miss the postseason for the third time in five seasons since LeBron James returned to Cleveland in 2014.The Heat were one game over .500 three times but only reached the .500 mark once since Jan. 27 and were done in by losing four straight before Tuesday.Brooklyn (41-40) will face either third-seeded Philadelphia or second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs. The Nets are even with Orlando but own the head-the-head tiebreaker and would finish sixth with a win or if the Magic lose Wednesday at Charlotte.The Nets are in this position because of what unfolded in a challenging road back-to-back set. After getting a five-point win at Milwaukee on Saturday, Brooklyn led most of the way and celebrated clinching a playoff berth with a 108-96 victory at Indiana on Sunday."To be honest, it is a big moment for us and a big moment for the organization, from where we've come from in the last couple of years, the improvement that we've had individually and collectively," Nets guard Joe Harris said at practice Tuesday. "Just to clinch a playoff spot, it's a big moment for the organization for sure, and we're all very happy. But at the same time, we still have Miami left to finish out the year the right way, and we still want to make some noise in the playoffs and make it competitive."By clinching Sunday, the Nets are in a position to rest players, and two may be out. DeMarre Carroll will sit out due to a sprained right wrist while Harris -- who leads the NBA in 3-point shooting percentage -- is questionable because of a sore right foot.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressKyrie Irving scored 37 points and the Boston Celtics rallied late in the fourth quarter to beat the Indiana Pacers by 99-91 on Wednesday night. The win gave Boston a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven, first-round seriesComing out of a timeout and with a chance to tie, the Pacers’ Wesley Matthews threw an inbounds pass into the bench on the other side of the court with 12.1 seconds left. On the ensuing play, the Celtics’ Al Horford passed to Jayson Tatum, who was fouled on a two-handed dunk. He completed the three-point play to make it 97-91 with 8.8 seconds left.The Pacers turned it over again and the Celtics were able to close out the game at the free throw line.Tatum scored 26 points, including a thunderous dunk down the stretch to help punctuate a 10-0 run by Boston over the final five minutes.[Read: Jayson Tatum has a daily reminder of the booming dunk he delivered on LeBron James last year.]Bojan Bogdanovic led Indiana with 23 points. Thaddeus Young added 15 points.Indiana led by 79-68 entering the fourth. Horford opened the final period scoring on a hook shot in the lane and Tyreke Evans responded with a 3-pointer on Indiana’s first possession.But then Boston caught fire, using a 16-0 run, including eight straight by Irving, to take an 86-82 lead with 5:04 to play. Indiana missed 10 straight shots during the run, finally breaking a nearly eight-minute scoring drought with a 3-pointer by Matthews in front of the Celtics’ bench.Horford had been a game-time decision with an illness, but was able to remain in the Celtics’ starting lineup. He was noticeably a step slower at the outset and didn’t take his first shot until late in the second quarter. He didn’t score his first points until the fourth, finishing with four points, 10 rebounds and four assists for the game.Game 3 is Friday in Indiana.BUCKS 120, PISTONS 99 Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points in Milwaukee’s big third quarter and the Bucks beat the Detroit Pistons, 120-99, on Wednesday night to take a 2-0 lead in the first-round playoff series.Eric Bledsoe led the Bucks with 27 points, and Khris Middleton had 24. Milwaukee is trying win a playoff series for the first time since 2001.Luke Kennard had 19 points for Detroit. Reggie Jackson and Andre Drummond each added 18, and Drummond had 16 rebounds. Detroit star Blake Griffin sat out again with a left knee injury, but received a technical for the second straight game for arguing from the bench.After scoring 10 points and playing only 14 minutes in the first half because of foul trouble, Antetokounmpo scored Milwaukee’s first seven points in the third quarter. The Bucks outscored Detroit 35-17 in the period to take a 93-76 lead into the fourth.Detroit clawed within seven in the fourth before the Bucks put it away, capped by a hard drive by Antetokounmpo on a break. He banked in an awkward reverse-angle shot while crashing to the floor after being fouled by Drummond. He competed the three-point play it make it 105-87.Game 3 is Saturday night in Detroit.GRIZZLIES HIRE EXECUTIVES The Memphis Grizzlies have hired Rich Cho as vice president of basketball strategy and Glen Grunwald as a senior adviser within the franchise’s basketball operations department.Cho is a former Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers general manager. Grunwald was general manager of the Knicks and the Toronto Raptors.Before coming to Portland, Cho was an assistant general manager with the Seattle SuperSonics and continued in that role when the franchise became the Oklahoma City Thunder. Grunwald worked with the Knicks from 2006-13, serving as executive vice president and general manager for the final two seasons of that stretch. He was Toronto’s general manager from 1997 to 2004.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Los Angeles Lakers and coach Luke Walton mutually parted ways on Friday, general manager Rob Pelinka announced in a statement.Walton's status had been tenuous, even before Magic Johnson resigned as president of basketball operations on Tuesday. Lakers owner Jeanie Buss was reportedly ready to OK a departure after previously being fully supportive of Walton."We would like to thank Luke for his dedicated service over the last three years," Pelinka said in a statement. "We wish Luke and his family the best of luck moving forward."Walton compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three seasons."I want to thank Jeanie Buss and the Buss family for giving me the opportunity to coach the Lakers," Walton said in a statement. "This franchise and the city will always be special to me and my family."The Lakers went 37-45 this season in a disappointing first campaign of the LeBron James era.Los Angeles was 20-14 when James suffered a groin injury during a Christmas Day win over the Golden State Warriors and the team's fortunes plummeted from there.Walton may not be unemployed for a long period as the Sacramento Kings are reportedly interested in interviewing him for their opening.The Kings went 39-43 this season and fired coach Dave Joerger. They have an impressive young group led by point guard De'Aaron Fox, shooting guard Buddy Hield and power forward Marvin Bagley III.Among the candidates for the Lakers' post is former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and Philadelphia 76ers assistant coach Monty Williams.Lue coached James for parts of three seasons in Cleveland -- including the franchise's 2016 NBA Finals title -- while Williams coached the New Orleans Pelicans for five seasons.Williams also is reported a candidate for the Sacramento job.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGolden State guard Stephen Curry left the Warriors' Tuesday game against the New Orleans Pelicans with a sprained right foot, but the ailment isn't expected to affect his readiness for the NBA playoffs.Curry sustained the non-contact injury when he rolled his foot and ankle while dribbling near the 3-point arc. He immediately fell and lost control of the ball.The team already was short-handed without key contributors such as Kevin Durant (flu-like symptoms), Klay Thompson (right knee soreness), Andre Iguodala (toe) and Andrew Bogut (rest), yet Golden State beat New Orleans 112-103.Warriors coach Steve Kerr was relatively tight-lipped about the injury after the game -- even labeling it an ankle issue when the team had earlier reported it as a sprained foot -- but Golden State's in-game actions spoke louder than his words.After going to the locker room for an examination, Curry returned to the game briefly, an indication the Warriors don't believe the injury is serious.In fact, it was Curry who waved himself off after hitting a shot, clearly not willing to risk further damage with the playoff opener potentially as close as four days away. He finished with five points in nine minutes of action."We think he's going to be fine. He tweaked it," Kerr told reporters afterward.The coach then was asked if the Warriors' Wednesday duel with the Toronto Raptors for the second-best record in the NBA played any role in Curry re-entering the game."We would like to win every game," Kerr responded. "Whatever happens with the seedings, we prioritize our health."Golden State already had secured the top seed in the Western Conference playoffs.In 2017, Curry also turned his right ankle on the Pelicans' home court. He missed almost a month because of that injury.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Golden State Warriors fear center DeMarcus Cousins suffered a torn quad during the team's stunning Game 2 loss to the Los Angeles Clippers in Oakland, Calif., ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported late Monday night.Noting that the exact nature of the injury won't be known until an MRI exam is performed Tuesday, Wojnarowski reported "there was evidence that Cousins' noncontact injury ... was serious and season-ending, league sources said."Cousins was injured while trying to run down a loose ball 3 1/2 minutes into the team's eventual 135-131 loss to the Clippers. With the Warriors leading 11-9 and the Clippers possessing the ball just past the half-court line, Cousins deflected a pass and sent it down the court toward the Warriors' bench. Trying to run down the ball before it went out of bounds, Cousins stumbled and went down without being touched, and immediately grabbed his left quad.He got up and soon limped off the court toward the Warriors' locker room. He had two points on a pair of free throws in four official minutes played. He also had two rebounds and an assist.Cousins, 28, had nine points, nine rebounds and four assists in Saturday night's Game 1, his first career playoff game. The Warriors won that game 121-104.Cousins signed a one-year, $5.3 million deal with the Warriors last offseason, then missed the team's first 45 games of the season as he continued to rehab from a ruptured left Achilles tendon he suffered playing for the New Orleans Pelicans on Jan. 26, 2018.In taking the one-year deal with the Warriors, Cousins' plan was to use this season to play his way back into a big free-agent contract this summer. If the quad is indeed torn, Cousins "could be facing several more months of rehab," per Wojnarowski.Picked fifth overall in the 2010 draft, the nine-year veteran is a four-time All-Star with career averages of 21.2 points, 10.9 rebounds. 3.2 assists, 1.4 steals and 1.2 blocks per game.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Tech standout Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, announced Thursday he will forgo his last two seasons in Lubbock and declare for the 2019 NBA Draft.The 6-foot-5, 195-pound guard made the announcement during a press conference in Lubbock, Texas.Culver helped lead the Red Raiders to a share of the Big 12 regular-season title and was effective in this year's NCAA Tournament, where Texas Tech fell to Virginia 85-77 in overtime in the national championship game.On the season, Culver averaged 18.5 points, 6.4 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game while the Red Raiders set a school record with 31 wins.--Also announcing his plans to declare for the draft was 18-year-old Russian Nikita Mikhailovskii, according to a report by ESPN.The 6-foot-8, 180-pound wing is trying to become the first Russian player drafted since 2013 when Sergey Karasev was chosen with the 19th pick by the Cleveland Cavaliers.Mikhailovskii spent the past season playing in the mostly Russian VTB United League and FIBA Europe Cup, averaging 7.8 points in 16.8 minutes while shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range in 45 games.--The Memphis Grizzlies hired two former general managers to their front office, adding Rich Cho as vice president of strategy and Glen Grunwald as senior adviser.Cho is a former GM of the Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers, and Grunwald was GM of the New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors.The Grizzlies demoted former GM Chris Wallace to a scouting role in a flurry of moves last week, including the firing of head coach J.B. Bickerstaff and the promotion of Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations.--Los Angeles Clippers assistant general manager Trent Redden reportedly is close to interviewing for a senior front-office role with the New Orleans Pelicans.The Clippers gave the Pelicans permission to discuss the position with Redden, ESPN reported, citing league sources.David Griffin, the Pelicans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, worked closely with Redden when they with the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 2016 NBA championship season. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski noted that Griffin is expected to be "aggressive" in pursuing Redden.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinU.S.A. Basketball plans to gauge the interest of the Duke University sensation Zion Williamson in joining the Americans’ 12-man squad for the FIBA World Cup in China this summer, according to a person familiar with U.S.A. Basketball’s intentions.No discussions have taken place with Williamson, whose freshman season at Duke ended Sunday with a 68-67 quarterfinal loss against Michigan State in the N.C.A.A. tournament.Formal talks with Williams, the presumptive No. 1 overall N.B.A. draft pick, would most likely not take place until Williams had officially declared his intention to turn professional and chosen an agent licensed by the N.B.A. to represent him, said the person, who was not authorized to speak publicly.But the precedent for such an invitation was set by the current U.S.A. Basketball hierarchy in 2012, when Anthony Davis — fresh off being drafted No. 1 overall out of Kentucky by the New Orleans Pelicans — earned a roster spot with Team USA at the London Olympics under Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski.The 2019 World Cup, which runs Aug. 31 to Sept. 15 in China, will be the first major competition for the United States since Krzyzewski was succeeded as coach by Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs. Williamson is widely regarded as the rare sort of talent, like Davis before him, who would not be out of place with the N.B.A. All-Stars expected to fill out Popovich’s roster — no matter who is coaching.The Athletic reported Monday that the Lakers’ LeBron James, a three-time Olympian, would not make himself available for the World Cup team this summer but that he had not ruled out playing for Team USA at the Tokyo Olympics in 2020.There was some hope in international basketball circles that James would consider playing in the World Cup since the Lakers had missed the playoffs and James would sit out the N.B.A. postseason for the first time since 2004-05.Jerry Colangelo, the chairman of U.S.A. Basketball, declined to discuss James or Williamson specifically when he was reached on Monday, saying only that roster invitations “will be addressed at the appropriate time.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. said Monday that it required the New Orleans Pelicans to play Anthony Davis, their disgruntled All-Star, after he was not traded before last week’s trade deadline because of “league rules governing competitive integrity.”The Pelicans initially planned to sit Davis for the rest of the season once they responded to his request to be traded by deciding to keep him beyond Thursday’s deadline, according to two people familiar with New Orleans’ stance who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.But the league office said it intervened because of its rules about resting healthy players, which are in place largely to prevent teams from weakening their rosters intentionally to incur losses that could improve their draft position in June. The practice is known as “tanking.”The Pelicans maintain that they were trying to protect Davis from a serious injury during the final 28 regular-season games before the off-season, when they do intend to trade him after they field offers from a wider base of teams than those who made competitive offers last week, according to the people.Mike Bass, an N.B.A. spokesman, said Monday that “the Pelicans were advised that the team had not identified a proper basis” to hold Davis out of games.“League rules governing competitive integrity therefore require that he be permitted to play,” Bass said.Bass also denied an ESPN report from last week that said the Pelicans were threatened by the league with per-game fines of $100,000 if they sat Davis when he wanted to play.[With Anthony Davis on His Way Out, New Orleans Tries to Plot Its Path]Davis, who can become a free agent in July 2020, requested a trade from the Pelicans on Jan. 28 but did not insist that he be traded before the deadline, The Times reported last week. As part of the trade request, Davis also told the Pelicans that he intended to decline their offer of a $240 million contract extension in July and that the Los Angeles Lakers and the Knicks were the two teams he was most open to signing a long-term deal with.Upon learning of New Orleans’ plans to sit Davis after the Pelicans and Lakers broke off days of contentious trade talks, Davis’s agent, Rich Paul, lobbied league officials on Davis’s behalf to clear him to play, according to the people.Both Paul and Michele Roberts, head of the N.B.A. Players Association, declined to comment Monday.“Anthony Davis will play the remainder of the 2018-19 season for the New Orleans Pelicans,” New Orleans General Manager Dell Demps said in a statement last week. “A number of factors contributed to this decision. Ultimately Anthony made it clear to us that he wants to play and gives our team the best opportunity to win games. Moreover the Pelicans want to preserve the integrity of the game and align our organization with N.B.A. policies. We believe Anthony playing upholds the values that are in the best interest of the N.B.A. and its fans. We look forward to seeing Anthony in a Pelicans uniform soon.”Davis has since appeared in two games with New Orleans, averaging 28.5 points and 12.5 rebounds in 29.5 minutes per game in a win (over Minnesota) and a defeat (in Memphis).The N.B.A. has been increasingly vigilant in sanctioning teams for resting healthy players since an incident in November 2012, when the San Antonio Spurs were fined $250,000 for sending Tim Duncan, Tony Parker, Manu Ginobili and Danny Green home with virtually no notice before a nationally televised game in Miami.This season, though, several players with smaller profiles than Davis have been shelved by their teams in anticipation of a trade without any public pushback from the N.B.A.Like Davis, Chandler Parsons of Memphis and Carmelo Anthony, the former Houston Rocket, wanted to play but were benched for months. Parsons has since rejoined the Grizzlies after they were unable to find a new home for him via trade before the deadline; Anthony spent more than two months in exile before the Rockets traded him to the Chicago Bulls on Jan. 21. Anthony became a free agent on Feb. 3 after the Bulls released him and he cleared waivers.Cleveland’s J.R. Smith and Zach Randolph, the former Sacramento King who was traded to Dallas last week, have also been inactive for long spells this season — but both by mutual agreement with their teams.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — Ian Clark scored 31 points with a career-best seven 3-pointers, Elfrid Payton had 12 of his 25 points in the final 3½ minutes and the New Orleans Pelicans beat the Sacramento Kings 133-129 on Sunday night.Jahlil Okafor added 23 points and 14 rebounds, Solomon Hill had 13 points and Kenrich Williams scored 12 to help the Pelicans stop a three-game skid while beating the Kings for the third time in four meetings this season.Harrison Barnes scored 29 points for Sacramento in its final home game. De'Aaron Fox added 24 points and 11 assists, while Marvin Bagley had 19 points and 14 rebounds.New Orleans led by 16 in the third quarter but Sacramento came back to tie it, then went up 117-115 midway through the fourth.Bogdan Bogdanovic and Barnes made consecutive 3s to put the Kings ahead 123-121. Payton then scored on a short jumper and made a 3-pointer.The Pelicans led 132-126 following a pair of free throws by Payton with 26.5 seconds remaining. Bogdanovic made another 3 but later airballed an attempt from beyond the arc. Buddy Hield also missed a late 3-pointer for the Kings.Hield finished with 12 points and made two 3s, giving him 599 in his first three NBA seasons. That matches the mark set by Portland's Damian Lillard.By taking three of four from Sacramento, the Pelicans prevented the Kings from celebrating their first 40-win season at home since 2005-06. Sacramento (39-42) can still reach 40 wins by beating Portland on the road Wednesday.The Kings got off to a good start but couldn't hold off the Pelicans in the second half.Nemanja Bjelica was perfect on five shots in the first quarter and had 12 points. Fox added 10 to help offset four 3s by Clark in the opening period.The Kings led by 14 before Clark led a late charge in the second quarter to pull the Pelicans to 68-66.TIP-INSPelicans: With Julius Randle getting the night off for rest, New Orleans was left with a three-man bench. Christian Wood started in place of Randle.Kings: Bagley's double-double was his 19th this season. . Coach Dave Joerger picked up a technical foul at the end of the third, his eighth this season. . Sacramento closed the third quarter on a 22-6 run, not long after allowing the Pelicans to go on a 20-5 spurt.UP NEXTPelicans: Play at Golden State on Tuesday.Kings: End the season at Portland on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaThe Golden State Warriors did more than just fall victim to the biggest comeback in N.B.A. playoff history on Monday night. They also lost DeMarcus Cousins, their starting center, for the foreseeable future — and most likely for the rest of the postseason. A test on Tuesday revealed that he had torn a left quadriceps muscle in the first quarter of the Warriors’ 135-131 loss to the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 2 of their first-round playoff series.Cousins, who had returned this season after tearing his left Achilles’ tendon in January 2018, underwent a magnetic resonance imaging examination that showed the tear, the Warriors announced. The team said Cousins would be out “indefinitely” and begin a course of rehabilitation.Cousins, 28, sustained the injury when he tumbled to the court going for a loose ball early in Monday’s game. He immediately grabbed his left thigh, then limped to the locker room and did not return.It was another devastating blow for Cousins, a four-time N.B.A. All-Star whose career has unraveled because of injuries. Last season, he was in line for a huge new contract when he tore his Achilles’ tendon while playing for the New Orleans Pelicans. He agreed to a modest one-year deal with the Warriors worth $5.3 million.After spending the first half of the season rehabbing, Cousins returned to the court in January and gave the Warriors more depth in their pursuit of a third straight championship. He had been playing well, too, averaging 16.3 points and 8.2 rebounds a game in 30 regular-season appearances.After Cousins departed, the Warriors managed to build a 31-point lead against the Clippers — but then blew it, succumbing to Lou Williams (36 points, 11 assists) and Montrezl Harrell (25 points, 10 rebounds), who helped Los Angeles even the best-of-seven series at a game apiece.RAPTORS 111, MAGIC 82 Kawhi Leonard scored 37 points, Kyle Lowry bounced back from a scoreless playoff opener with 22 and host Toronto routed Orlando on Tuesday night, evening their Eastern Conference first-round series at one win apiece.Pascal Siakam had 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who never trailed and led by as many as 34. Despite playing in foul trouble for much of the night, Leonard finished with a career playoff-high 15 field goals. (AP)NUGGETS 114, SPURS 105 Jamal Murray scored 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter, and host Denver rallied from 19 down to beat San Antonio and tie their Western Conference first-round playoff series at one game apiece.Nikola Jokic had 21 points, 13 rebounds and 8 assists, Gary Harris scored 23 points and Paul Millsap had 20 for Denver. DeMar DeRozan scored a playoff career-high 31 points and LaMarcus Aldridge had 24 points for the Spurs.The Nuggets struggled to make shots deep into the third quarter but found their rhythm in the fourth quarter by hitting nine of their first 11 field goals in the final period to storm into the lead. (FIELD LEVEL MEDIA)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Los Angeles Lakers held exit interviews with the media on Wednesday, fresh off a disappointing season and the drama of Tuesday night, when team president Magic Johnson abruptly stepped down before the final game."We had moments where we were really, really good and we had moments where we were really, really bad," forward Brandon Ingram said."Because of what went on throughout the schedule, which was crazy, I think that ultimately helps us out and brings us even closer for next year. I'm not sure who is going to return, but for the guys who are, I know they going to feel that feeling of like we could have won games."But much is up in the air a day after the Lakers ended with a 37-45 record and missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season. Who will run the team? Who will coach the team? Luke Walton, after his third season on the bench, did not meet with the media Wednesday."I think Luke did a hell of a job, with what he had, the cards he was dealt," point guard Rajon Rondo said. "Guys fought every night."The Lakers, who pursued New Orleans Pelicans star Anthony Davis at the trading deadline, will want to make a big offseason splash, which could suit the desires of superstar LeBron James.The Lakers were 20-14 and in fourth place in the Western Conference after beating the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day, when James suffered a groin injury that cost him the next 17 games.Ingram didn't play after March 2 and under underwent thoracic outlet decompression surgery after he was diagnosed with deep venous thrombosis, which involved a blood clot that caused shoulder pain.Point guard Lonzo Ball didn't play after Jan. 19 because of a left ankle injury. He wore a black hat with the words "Don't Forget Me" to his media interview Wednesday."I think those two weeks before I got hurt, I kind of figured it out," said Ball, whose name has been mentioned in trade possibilities. "I felt I was playing the basketball I was capable of playing and unfortunately I got hurt and couldn't come back."The other big question around Ball is whether he will continue to do business with his father, LaVar Ball, and the family's Big Baller Brand."We're still talking about it," Lonzo Ball said. "Right now, I'm not really too focused on that. I'm more focused on just being healthy, getting right for the summer. We'll get around to it."Ball said he looked at James -- who signed a four-year, $154 million deal last offseason -- as a "big brother.""It was a dream come true for me," Ball said of playing with James. "Obviously, his IQ is off the charts, so he's not hard to play with at all."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHere are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDALLAS — Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs will soon become the fourth 70-year-old coach in N.B.A. history, but he remains undecided about coaching the Spurs beyond this season.Popovich, who turns 70 on Jan. 28, is in the last season of a five-year contract extension he signed after the Spurs won their most recent championship in 2014.“I don’t know the answer,” Popovich said when asked about his plans for next season in an interview Wednesday night after the Spurs’ 105-101 victory over the Dallas Mavericks.Popovich said he and R.C. Buford, San Antonio’s longtime team president, have periodically discussed the club’s various options after this season.“He’ll coach as long as he wants to coach,” Buford said.Whether or not he stays on the Spurs’ bench, Popovich has committed to spending the next two summers coaching the men’s national team for U.S.A. Basketball, at the 2019 FIBA World Cup in China and the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo. An Air Force Academy graduate who was one of the final cuts from the 1972 American Olympic team, Popovich has served as a U.S.A. Basketball assistant — but this will be his first stint in charge after being named to replace Mike Krzyzewski of Duke University as the head coach in October 2015.Among the challenges Popovich would face next season, should he elect to keep coaching the Spurs, is a turnaround of just two weeks between the end of the World Cup on Sept. 15 and the start of N.B.A. training camps.The Spurs have recovered from their off-season trade of Kawhi Leonard, the disgruntled All-Star forward, and an 11-14 start this season — the worst record under Popovich through 25 games. A 15-6 surge since then has moved them to No. 6 in the Western Conference.San Antonio is seeking a 22nd consecutive playoff appearance in a run that began in Popovich’s first full season as head coach. He coached the final 64 games of a 20-62 campaign in 1996-97, which earned San Antonio the No. 1 pick in the 1997 draft and the right to select Tim Duncan.Led by Popovich and Duncan, who retired in 2016, San Antonio won five championships across 15 seasons. But this season featured Popovich’s first training camp without at least one of three Spurs mainstays: Duncan, Manu Ginobili, who retired at the end of last season, and Tony Parker, who left San Antonio for Charlotte in free agency over the summer.On Popovich’s birthday, he will join Bill Bertka (71), Hubie Brown (71) and Larry Brown (70) as the only head coaches in league history to work into their 70s, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. Larry Brown gave Popovich and Buford their starts in the N.B.A. by bringing them in as assistant coaches with the Spurs in 1988.One of just five N.B.A. coaches in history to win at least five championships, Popovich recently moved into third place in coaching wins, behind Don Nelson and Lenny Wilkens. The other N.B.A. coaches to win five titles are Phil Jackson (11), Red Auerbach (nine), Pat Riley (five) and John Kundla (five).Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDENVER — There was a time not long ago that basketball success in the Rocky Mountains was measured by the Denver Nuggets’ ability to persuade a free agent of Dwyane Wade’s stature to meet team brass in New York and let the Nuggets offer him millions.In the summer of 2016, only one season into the career of Nikola Jokic and with few hints to that point that the Nuggets already had a cornerstone player, just getting the opportunity to pitch Wade face-to-face was widely hailed as a triumph for this franchise.What went unrevealed that off-season was that Denver also made a futile run at Wade’s longtime rival, Dirk Nowitzki of the Dallas Mavericks. Nowitzki had no interest in even entertaining the idea of leaving the only team he had ever known, but that was the Nuggets in the embryonic stages of Jokic’s development — straining to persuade some of the game’s biggest names to take them seriously.Three years later, Jokic is a certifiable All-Star and his team of upstarts from the Mile High City found an entertaining way on Tuesday night to win some leaguewide notice. Seemingly headed for a second consecutive playoff defeat to the San Antonio Spurs on its home floor, Denver rode a remarkable fourth-quarter resurrection from the third-year guard Jamal Murray to rally to a 114-105 victory over the Spurs that did far more than even this Western Conference first-round series at one game apiece.“Definitely saved the season,” Paul Millsap, Denver’s veteran forward, said in a quiet moment at his locker. “To go down, 0-2, against the San Antonio Spurs, going into their place, it’s a massacre waiting to happen.”Millsap’s candor conveyed a good chunk of the significance attached to this win, but not all of it. Murray’s eruption for 21 of his 24 points in the final period — on 8-for-9 shooting after he stood at 0-for-8 through three quarters — not only gave the hosts hope of making this an actual series but also spared them some real embarrassment and introspection.After five consecutive seasons out of the playoffs, Denver unexpectedly won 54 games this season to vault to No. 2 in the West. The Nuggets were nonetheless a trendy pick to suffer a first-round upset against the San Antonio masters of execution and their coaching maestro, Gregg Popovich, which would naturally render Denver’s regular-season accomplishments rather hollow.“Frauds” was the popular word being tossed around on N.B.A. Twitter after the Nuggets fell behind by 19 points — twice — in a must-win game. Booing broke out at Pepsi Center on multiple occasions in just Denver’s second home playoff game since 2013, with both Jokic and Nuggets Coach Michael Malone telling reporters afterward that the fans were too hard on Will Barton when they hissed at his 1-for-10 shooting.“When they’re going through a tough time, they could use some love,” Malone said of his players, who comprise the league’s youngest playoff roster.Fortunately for Barton and the rest of the Nuggets, it was all love in the fourth quarter, thanks largely to Murray, who shot 8-for-24 in Game 1 — including a wide-open elbow jumper he clanked in crunchtime that clearly haunted the Canadian guard well into Game 2.During one key timeout, Malone reminded his players “what the Clippers did” Monday night, when they rallied out of a 31-point deficit in the second half at Golden State to register the largest playoff comeback in N.B.A. history. The inspiration finally hit Murray in the fourth when, without warning, he drained his first eight shots.In support of Murray, Jokic rang up 21 points, 13 rebounds and 8 assists in a bid for a second consecutive triple-double, which would suggest that the Serbian big man is coping quite well with his first turn under a playoff microscope. Gary Harris and Millsap added 23 and 20 points, to give Denver four starters in the 20s.“We gave up 38 points in the fourth quarter,” said a seething Popovich. “End of story.”The collapse was even worse than Popovich realized. The Spurs actually allowed 39 points in the quarter — and San Antonio’s All-Star forward, LaMarcus Aldridge, could be subjected to some league discipline that affects his status for Thursday night’s Game 3 judging by video footage in circulation that appears to show Aldridge landing a below-the-belt shot on Harris.Not that the Nuggets, after days of hearing incessantly about how inexperienced they are, can feel any sort of comfort yet. They’ve lost 13 consecutive games in San Antonio dating to 2012. Denver is also 0-11, as a franchise, in best-of-seven series after losing Game 1.“I think the cynicism is fair,” Nuggets General Manager Tim Connelly said after the victory, acknowledging that he was well aware of the noise about his team.Yet Connelly pointed out that as fluky as skeptics might find the Nuggets’ No. 2 seed, team officials set three fairly lofty goals before the season started. Then they watched this group, largely assembled through Denver’s own shrewd drafting and trading, reach them all.End the playoff drought? Check.Win the Northwest Division? Check.Secure a top-four seed and home-court advantage in the first round of the postseason?Check.The next step was making sure they didn’t spoil all that by falling into an 0-2 hole to San Antonio with two home defeats, which is the sort of deficit only four teams in league history have managed to erase. Yet one of the more refreshing things about this team is that it doesn’t try to pretend that its collective lack of postseason experience is merely a topic harped on by the news media.The Nuggets have only three players (Millsap, Barton and Mason Plumlee) who appeared in a playoff game before Game 1 of this series, and they acknowledge it’s an obstacle, especially against a team that can carry out a game plan like the Spurs.“Yes, playoff basketball is everything everybody says it is,” Harris told me Monday, on the eve of Game 2.Breakthrough performances from Murray and Jokic and big comebacks, as such, must be celebrated — even at this early stage of Round 1.So in the middle of the victorious locker room, swept up in what the novices, er, the Nuggets had just achieved, Malone was duly pulled into a robust group hug by their rarely seen owner, Stan Kroenke, and Kroenke’s son Josh, the team’s president and governor.“It was fun,” Connelly said, “to watch some young guys grow up tonight.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherTwo top N.B.A. teams battling into double overtime. Memorable individual performances. And points, points, points. Thursday night’s game between the San Antonio Spurs and the Oklahoma City Thunder set a handful of records, but it was the Spurs who won, 154-147.LaMarcus Aldridge had his best night. Although he has averaged 20 points or more regularly, and frequently winds up in the 30s and 40s, Aldridge had never scored 50 points in an N.B.A. game until Thursday. And at halftime, it didn’t look as if Thursday would be the night, either; Aldridge had only 14 points. But a strong second half took him to 43, and the two overtimes gave him the extra minutes he needed to reach 56, a new career high.He tallied the 56 with six layups, three dunks, 11 midrange shots and 16 free throws. Notably, the 6-foot-11 Aldridge attempted no 3-pointers, which have powered most of the recent record-setting offensive performances in the modern N.B.A. (That was not surprising; Aldridge is only 2 for 14 on the year from distance.) Still, in padding his scoring in 1s and 2s, Aldridge became the first player to score 50 points without attempting a 3-pointer since Jermaine O’Neal had 55 for the Indiana Pacers in 2005.It was the most points by a Spurs player since David Robinson scored 71 in 1994, and the most against the Thunder franchise since Tom Chambers of the Suns poured in 60 against the team — then still the Seattle SuperSonics — in 1990.It wasn’t just the field goals. Aldridge was 16 of 16 on free throws, ranking second this season for perfection from the line. (James Harden had a 19-of-19 performance against the Detroit Pistons in November.) He also pitched in on defense, blocking four Thunder shots.“Well, he’s been a beast all year long,” Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich told ESPN after the game. “He anchors us on both ends of the floor.”As one might expect, Aldridge took a lot of shots in posting his big number. His 33 attempts were the most for a Spurs player since Tony Parker took 36 shots in a game in 2008.The other Spurs couldn’t miss from 3. While Aldridge stayed mostly down low, his teammates fired away from behind the 3-point line with almost superhuman accuracy, making 16 of 19 attempts. Their percentage, .842, was the highest ever for a team that took at least 10 3-pointers in a game, surpassing a 14-of-17 (.824) performance by the Chicago Bulls in 2005. It was a balanced attack, too, with Marco Belinelli going 5 for 5, Davis Bertans 4 for 4 and Bryn Forbes 3 for 3.The Thunder challenged some records of their own. Russell Westbrook had 24 assists in the loss, the second-highest total of the century, trailing only Rajon Rondo’s 25 for the Pelicans last season. That was part of a triple-double: Westbrook also had 24 points and 13 rebounds. That particular combination of at least 20 points, 10 rebounds and 20 assists is a rarity; it has been done only 12 times in the N.B.A. since 1960, and only one other time this century, in 2016 — by Westbrook.The scoreboard took a pounding. The combined 301 points in the game was the most since 2006, when the Suns and Nets combined to put up 318 in a double-overtime game. The Spurs’ 154 points were the most they had scored in a game since 1990.Both teams will enjoy a day off Friday, then suit up again on Saturday — in a rematch in Oklahoma City. Based on Thursday’s performances, that suddenly has become one of the most anticipated regular-season games in years.An earlier version of this article gave incorrect historical context for one superlative for LaMarcus Aldridge. He scored the most points by a Spur since David Robinson in 1994, not since George Gervin in 1978.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDENVER — Nikola Jokic scored 29 points and had a key strip in the closing seconds for the Denver Nuggets, who scored the game's final 15 points in a 99-95 win over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Wednesday night that secured the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs."We didn't give up," Jokic told the crowd after the Nuggets pulled out the improbable win to set up a first-round playoff series with the seventh-seeded San Antonio Spurs, instead of sixth-seeded Oklahoma City.The Nuggets are in the postseason for the first time in six years.Jamal Murray added 17 points, including the go-ahead 3-pointer with 31 seconds left that put Denver up 96-95. Jokic stripped Andrew Wiggins, who led the Timberwolves with 25 points, and then sank two free throws for a three-point cushion.Wiggins' 3-pointer to tie it hit the front of the rim and the Nuggets got the ball back. Paul Millsap was fouled at the other end with 4.2 seconds remaining. He sank his first free throw and missed his second, but teammate Will Barton corralled the rebound and dribbled out the clock.Gorgui Dieng added 18 points for the Timberwolves backups and rookie Cameron Reynolds scored a career-best 17 points, including a 3-pointer that put Minnesota ahead 95-84 with 4:01 left.They wouldn't score again.Jokic also pulled down 14 rebounds one night after his worst game of the year, one in which he scored just two points before fouling out in 16 minutes in a loss at Utah.A year ago, these two teams met on the final day of the regular season with a lot more at stake. The Timberwolves won that one in overtime in the first final-day play-in game in the NBA in 21 years, ending a 14-year playoff absence and extending Denver's drought to six seasons.Then, All-Star Jimmy Butler demanded a trade that torpedoed the Timberwolves, who fell to 36-46 and reverted to also-ran status while the Nuggets put together a 54-28 breakout for their first trip to the playoffs since 2012-13."Each one of our players deserves credit, because they've all bought in from Day 1," Malone said. "And I think we've used that motivation of losing in Minneapolis last year Game 82 because coming up short two years in a row is really hard and it's kind of motivated us to be the team we are right now."TIP-INS:Timberwolves: Minnesota played without starters Karl Anthony-Towns (right knee), Jeff Teague (left foot) and Robert Covington (right knee) and key reserves Taj Gibson (left calf) and Derrick Rose (right elbow).Nuggets: Denver finished an NBA-best 34-7 at home. ... The Nuggets earned a No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs for the sixth time in their history and for the first time since 2008-09, when they last won a playoff series, 4-1 over the Mavericks in the conference semifinals. They have lost their last five playoff series.FIRST THINGS FIRSTThe Timberwolves will make hiring a new president of basketball operations their first offseason priority. The fates of general manager Scott Layden and interim head coach Ryan Saunders have yet to be decided. Tom Thibodeau, who was fired Jan. 6, held the dual role of president of basketball operations and head coach."It really does not change anything for me one bit," Saunders said. "When I accepted this post in early January, I approached it as I'm the head coach until they tell me I'm not the head coach. And that's how I continue to look at things moving forward."UP NEXTTimberwolves: A search for a president, followed by decisions on Layden and Saunders.Nuggets: A return to the playoffs after a six-year absence, facing the San Antonio Spurs in the first round.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinU.S.A. Basketball plans to gauge the interest of the Duke University sensation Zion Williamson in joining the Americans’ 12-man squad for the FIBA World Cup in China this summer, according to a person familiar with U.S.A. Basketball’s intentions.No discussions have taken place with Williamson, whose freshman season at Duke ended Sunday with a 68-67 quarterfinal loss against Michigan State in the N.C.A.A. tournament.Formal talks with Williams, the presumptive No. 1 overall N.B.A. draft pick, would most likely not take place until Williams had officially declared his intention to turn professional and chosen an agent licensed by the N.B.A. to represent him, said the person, who was not authorized to speak publicly.But the precedent for such an invitation was set by the current U.S.A. Basketball hierarchy in 2012, when Anthony Davis — fresh off being drafted No. 1 overall out of Kentucky by the New Orleans Pelicans — earned a roster spot with Team USA at the London Olympics under Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski.The 2019 World Cup, which runs Aug. 31 to Sept. 15 in China, will be the first major competition for the United States since Krzyzewski was succeeded as coach by Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs. Williamson is widely regarded as the rare sort of talent, like Davis before him, who would not be out of place with the N.B.A. All-Stars expected to fill out Popovich’s roster — no matter who is coaching.The Athletic reported Monday that the Lakers’ LeBron James, a three-time Olympian, would not make himself available for the World Cup team this summer but that he had not ruled out playing for Team USA at the Tokyo Olympics in 2020.There was some hope in international basketball circles that James would consider playing in the World Cup since the Lakers had missed the playoffs and James would sit out the N.B.A. postseason for the first time since 2004-05.Jerry Colangelo, the chairman of U.S.A. Basketball, declined to discuss James or Williamson specifically when he was reached on Monday, saying only that roster invitations “will be addressed at the appropriate time.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersJamal Murray scored 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter, and the host Denver Nuggets rallied from down 19 to beat the San Antonio Spurs 114-105 in Game 2 of their Western Conference first-round playoff series on Tuesday night.Nikola Jokic had 21 points, 13 rebounds and eight assists, Gary Harris scored 23 points, and Paul Millsap had 20 points for Denver. The Nuggets tied the series 1-1 and ended San Antonio's seven-game playoff winning streak in Denver.DeMar DeRozan scored 31 points and LaMarcus Aldridge had 24 points for the Spurs.Murray, who missed his first eight shots, hit five consecutive shots in the fourth quarter, including two straight and a pair of free throws that gave Denver a 99-97 lead, its first advantage since 17-16. The Nuggets were ahead by three before Murray drained two 3-pointers to make it 110-101.Raptors 111, Magic 82Kawhi Leonard scored 37 points on 15-for-22 shooting from the field, and Toronto defeated visiting Orlando to even its first-round Eastern Conference playoff series at one game apiece.Pascal Siakam added 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who never trailed. Kyle Lowry contributed 22 points and seven assists for Toronto while Serge Ibaka chipped in with 13 points and eight rebounds off the bench.Aaron Gordon scored 20 points for the Magic, who split the regular-season series 2-2 with the Raptors. Terrence Ross added 15 points for Orlando while Evan Fournier scored 10 points.Trail Blazers 114, Thunder 94CJ McCollum and Damian Lillard combined for 62 points as Portland swept to a victory over visiting Oklahoma City.McCollum scored 33 points and Lillard added 29 as the Trail Blazers seized a 2-0 lead in the first-round Western Conference playoff series. Maurice Harkless chipped in 14 points and nine rebounds for Portland, which led by as many as 22 points in the fourth quarter.Paul George tallied 27 points with eight rebounds for the Thunder, who led by as many as 10 points in the first half. Russell Westbrook collected 14 points, 11 assists and nine boards for Oklahoma City but shot only 5 of 20 from the field.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDirk Nowitzki was mum all season on his future plans but after a rousing performance in the Dallas Mavericks' home finale Tuesday, the star finally announced the decision everyone expected."Wow. I'm a little overwhelmed, as you would think," Nowitzki told the sellout crowd after the Mavericks' 120-109 victory over the Phoenix Suns. "As you guys might expect, this is my last home game."Nowitzki made his much-anticipated retirement announcement after delivering a season-high 30-point performance, with five 3-pointers, against the Suns. The 7-footer scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history (31,540 points) finished the game with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 33 minutes.The 40-year-old Nowitzki, whose playing career will officially end Wednesday night when the Mavs play the San Antonio Spurs, was honored by the appearance of five of his childhood heroes -- Charles Barkley, Larry Bird, Scottie Pippen, Shawn Kemp and fellow German Detlef Schrempf -- for a postgame ceremony that included heartfelt speeches by Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle and owner Mark Cuban."Amazing that my heroes came out here for this game," Nowitzki said. "Thank you guys so much. Love you guys. Grew up watching you and idolizing you guys so this means more than you will ever know."Mark, can't wait to see what you've got for my jersey retirement. I mean, this is a high bar that you set. But as you guys might expect, this is my last home game."Nowitzki's final season didn't actually begin until mid-December thanks to a longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career and averaged 6.6 points in fewer than 15 minutes a game.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted M-V-P! M-V-P! Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2007 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
On Pro BasketballNo Spur over these past two decades of rampant San Antonio success left town the way Leonard did.Kawhi Leonard was back in San Antonio on Thursday to play his former team. The Spurs beat the Raptors, 125-107.CreditCreditRonald Cortes/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Marc SteinSAN ANTONIO — High above the floor at the AT&T Center hang the retired numbers of eight former San Antonio Spurs. Kawhi Leonard seemingly has a very strong case to see his old No. 2 hoisted among them someday.“I would think so,” Danny Green said Thursday night, when he and Leonard made their shared return to San Antonio as members of the Toronto Raptors.“He’s a finals MVP, led this team to a championship, won a couple defensive player of the years,” Green added. “Not everybody who’s come through here has done that.”Yet it’s likewise true that no Spur over these past two decades of rampant San Antonio success left town the way Leonard did. No prominent Spur before Leonard, in the Gregg Popovich era, ever forced his way out in such contentious circumstances.So you have to believe that it’s going to be a long time around here before the Spurs, and especially their jilted fans, will be able to look back with fondness on the undeniable highs of Leonard’s time in the Alamo City. That was the clear conclusion after the Spurs inflicted a 125-107 rout upon the Raptors in the teams’ first meeting since the blockbuster trade in July that sent Leonard to Toronto — thanks to the copious amounts of vitriol heaped in his direction for nearly three hours.Once dubbed the “future face of the franchise” by Popovich himself, Leonard was booed relentlessly in his first game as a visitor to the building that served as home for his first seven N.B.A. seasons. He was lustily booed on all 10 shots he took during pregame layup lines, heard the home crowd’s displeasure even louder when he was introduced right after the beloved Green and was booed every time he took possession of the ball for four full quarters.During a pregame tribute video titled “Thank You Danny & Kawhi,” Leonard and Green were alternately jeered and cheered depending on whose face showed up on the video board overhead. And on a trip to the free-throw line late in the first half, Leonard was serenaded with an unmistakable chant of “traitor, traitor, traitor.”The Spurs capitalized on the energy in the building, as well as the injury absence of the Toronto All-Star point guard Kyle Lowry (back), and romped to a 34-11 lead. Leonard finished with a muted 21 points and found little comfort beyond a postgame hug with Popovich — just two nights removed from a career-best 45 points in a victory over Utah.“I embraced it, enjoyed the moment and it’s only going to make me better,” Leonard insisted afterward.Local satisfaction was only amplified by the performance from the All-Star — DeMar DeRozan — that San Antonio acquired from Toronto in exchange for Leonard. To underline the marked improvement in his playmaking since becoming a Spur, as well as surely to spite the Toronto General Manager Masai Ujiri for giving up on him, DeRozan totaled 21 points, 14 rebounds and 11 assists for his first career triple-double.“I told him it was about time,” joked Popovich, who added that DeRozan is “playing downhill” and “attracting a crowd” to subsequently find open teammates better than he ever envisioned when the trade was made.“I didn’t know about the passing,” Popovich said.Cathartic as the whole evening seemed, though, it will take much more than one beatdown for the Spurs to say they have healed from the events of last season. The team’s relationship with Leonard steadily deteriorated to the point that the Most Valuable Player of the 2014 N.B.A. finals, rather than sign a $219 million contract extension, stunningly asked out.The presumed cause of that breakdown is disagreements over the treatment of a mysterious leg injury that limited Leonard to nine games last season. We have to presume, because Leonard has yet to explain the roots of his discontent, saying again at Thursday morning’s shootaround when asked to share his motivations for seeking a trade, “I’m not going to discuss that here today.”What’s undeniable is that the Spurs were rocked by (and are still recovering from) Leonard’s determination to play elsewhere this season and then proceed to free agency in July, when the Los Angeles Clippers are widely expected to emerge as a serious threat to sign Leonard away from the Raptors.Throughout the Popovich era, which began in earnest when he took over as coach 18 games into the 1996-97 season, San Antonio has emphasized and taken great pride in its player relations as much as any team on the N.B.A. map. It’s a big reason the Leonard saga stung the organization so deeply.“It was rough on everybody,” said San Antonio guard Bryn Forbes.Perhaps that’s why Popovich, when speaking to reporters before the game, struggled to play down the occasion. He initially dismissed the hoopla surrounding Leonard’s return as a focus for “mostly you guys” in the news media, before ultimately admitting, “But I get it.” Popovich understands as well as anyone that these wounds won’t heal quickly for anyone in South Texas.The Spurs, mind you, are trying. They’re up to a surprising seventh in the Western Conference at 22-17, despite a shortage of 3-point specialists, at a time they have never been more valued in the game, as well as concerns coming into the season about their collective ability defensively.After a 1-4 skid in early December in which it suffered defeats by 39, 31 and 34 points, San Antonio has won 11 of 14. The Spurs also rank No. 1 in the league in offensive efficiency and No. 4 in defensive efficiency over the past month since allowing 120 points in a Dec. 7 victory over the Los Angeles Lakers.It won’t be long, though, before the Spurs are reunited with Leonard again. The backdrop will be completely different, with Toronto playing host to San Antonio on Feb. 22 in front of what will surely be an adoring audience at Scotiabank Arena. But many of the same emotions are bound to be dredged up.“They love him,” Raptors Coach Nick Nurse said of Leonard. “They love their players in Toronto, as you know, and he gives them a little bit more every game.”As for where he stands with the San Antonians who once regarded him as an heir to those immortalized in the rafters — most notably Tim Duncan and David Robinson — Leonard was forced to acknowledge that it’s way too soon to even imagine repairing the damage his departure caused.“I really don’t reflect on what happened probably until I retire,” Leonard said.An earlier version of this article used an outdated name for the Toronto Raptors’ home court. It is now Scotiabank Arena, not Air Canada Centre.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday. He compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.--The Lakers, meanwhile, received permission to discuss their opening for head coach with Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams, ESPN reported, citing league sources.The Lakers are focusing on Williams and former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue, and general manager Rob Pelinka plans to speak with each candidate in the near future, league sources told ESPN.After spending the previous two years in the San Antonio Spurs' front office following the death of his wife Ingrid in 2016, Williams got back into coaching as Brett Brown's top assistant with the 76ers.--The 76ers fined veteran center Amir Johnson an undisclosed amount for showing teammate Joel Embiid his cell phone on the bench late in a 111-102 loss to the Brooklyn Nets in Game 1 of their playoff series.TV cameras caught Johnson on the bench in the fourth quarter, when the 76ers were 16 points down and he was scrolling through his phone. After showing Embiid something on his phone, Johnson put it into the pocket of his warm-ups."I apologize for having my phone on the bench in today's game," Johnson said in a statement released hours after the game by the 76ers. "I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions. I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."--Milwaukee Bucks forward Nikola Mirotic is expected to return from a thumb injury to play in Game 1 of the first-round series against the Detroit Pistons on Sunday.Mirotic missed the final 11 games of the regular season after fracturing his left thumb during a March 19 game against the Los Angeles Lakers.Mirotic fully participated in Friday's practice and took part in Saturday's non-contact practice. He had his thumb taped during both workouts.--The Washington Wizards announced they will not make a qualifying offer to free agent forward Devin Robinson after he was apparently arrested late Friday."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend a qualifying offer to him for the 2019-20 season," it read.According to Washington Post reporter Candace Buckner, who covers the Wizards, Robinson was involved in an altercation with Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills at a nightclub.--Toronto Raptors forward OG Anunoby could be sidelined until the Eastern Conference finals, should the team make it that far, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.Anunoby underwent an emergency appendectomy on Thursday.The second-year player, who is a key reserve for the Raptors, scored 7.0 points per game this season with an average of 2.9 rebounds. He played in 67 games this season, starting six of them, a year after he started 62 games as a rookie from Indiana.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCLEVELAND — LaMarcus Aldridge had 18 points and 13 rebounds as the San Antonio Spurs, who are in a three-team scramble to determine playoff seeding in the Western Conference, extended Cleveland's losing streak to nine games by beating the Cavaliers 112-90 on Sunday.The Spurs recently clinched a postseason spot for a NBA record-tying 22nd year in a row, but they don't yet know who they'll play in the first round. San Antonio came into the day in eighth place, which would mean an early matchup with defending champion Golden State.However, the Spurs can still move ahead of Oklahoma City and the Los Angeles Clippers as they own tiebreakers with both teams.DeMar DeRozan and Patty Mills added 14 points apiece for the balanced Spurs, who turned back every Cleveland challenge in the second half. Mills made three 3-pointers in a two-minute span early in the fourth quarter to end any chances of the Cavs rallying.Rookie Collin Sexton and Brandon Knight scored 16 each for Cleveland, and the Cavs celebrated the upcoming retirement of forward Channing Frye throughout the game.Kevin Love returned after missing four games and played 13 minutes in the first half — a salute to Frye, his close friend.San Antonio didn't pull away from Cleveland until midway through the second quarter and the Spurs used a 9-0 run over the final 2:05 to open a 62-46 halftime lead.With the popular Frye retiring after Tuesday's game and 13 seasons, Cavs coach Larry Drew started the 35-year-old for the first time since Jan. 9.Love wanted to play alongside Frye one last time and subbed in during the first quarter wearing his friend's No. 45 college jersey from the University of Arizona over his Cavaliers' jersey. The gesture couldn't have been easy for Love, who played at rival UCLA.When Frye hit a 3-pointer for Cleveland's first points, the Cavs bench erupted and the reserves, who all wore shooting shirts with "Channing" on the back, celebrated with high-fives.Frye, a key member of the Cavs' 2016 title team, played the first seven minutes and pretended to collapse on the bench when he finally came out.When he was pulled with 1:34 left in the game, Frye received a loud ovation before being tackled to the floor by teammates.TIP-INSSpurs: San Antonio's playoff streak is the longest active one in the league. Golden State and Houston are tied for second with seven. ... G Marco Belinelli (left hip soreness) sat out the first half. He didn't score in 10 minutes. ... Coach Gregg Popovich had kind words for Frye. "He's one of those stretch-4-kind-of guys we always talk about that really had an impact," Popovich said. "Most of my memories of him were in Phoenix, where he was really a big problem for us. He did such a great job and really cemented that, it's going to be part of the NBA forever — shooting big guys — and he was great at it. He's been a great teammate."Cavaliers: Sexton came in averaging 23.9 points over his past 15 games. ... G Matthew Dellavedova missed his 16th straight game with a concussion. ... Coach Larry Drew said he has not discussed his future with the club. Drew took over when Tyronn Lue was fired in October after a 0-6 start. Drew received a pay raise and new contract from the Cavs, which includes a team option for next season.UP NEXTSpurs: Host Dallas in regular-season finale on Wednesday.Cavaliers: Conclude season Tuesday at home against Charlotte.___Advertisement
