AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein and Kevin DraperDALLAS — Moments before the home team was introduced on Monday night, Kristaps Porzingis made his usual walk behind the scorer’s table to take a seat on the Dallas Mavericks’ bench at American Airlines Center.Wearing a three-piece olive suit and a maroon tie, Porzingis saluted a friendly face in the crowd and proceeded to what has become his customary vantage point. It was Porzingis’s 13th home game as a spectator since Dallas acquired him from the Knicks on Feb. 1, as he continues to recover from a serious knee injury he sustained in February 2018.Porzingis, in other words, projected normalcy in his first public appearance since it emerged that he is under investigation by law enforcement authorities in New York City over an accusation that he sexually assaulted a woman there.As the Mavericks reveled in an unforeseen 16 points and 14 rebounds from the reserve center Salah Mejri, Porzingis was right in the heart of multiple bench celebrations. Coach Rick Carlisle had given Porzingis the option of taking personal time away from the team to escape the glare of the spotlight, but Porzingis declined. He wants to keep practicing, Carlisle said, and uphold his rooting routine through the final five games of the Mavericks’ third successive season of missing the playoffs.These, of course, are not normal times for the Mavericks — not when Porzingis, whom they acquired just 60 days ago to serve as a cornerstone for the franchise alongside the electric Slovene rookie Luka Doncic, is facing such grave allegations.Porzingis’s lawyer, Roland G. Riopelle, “unequivocally” denied the accusation and revealed that he formally referred the accuser to the F.B.I. in December for what he termed her “extortionate demands.”The New York Police Department and the Manhattan district attorney’s office have confirmed an investigation is underway, but representatives have declined to comment further. The woman filed a complaint on Thursday that accused Porzingis of sexually assaulting her in his Manhattan apartment on Feb. 7, 2018 — mere hours after he sustained the debilitating knee injury.The woman did not respond to several phone calls requesting comment.For the Mavericks — one season removed from a sexual harassment scandal that led to multiple firings and an overhaul of the franchise’s business and human resources departments — the case has invited fresh scrutiny of a trade for a marquee player who is the subject of a serious criminal complaint.Complicating matters for the Mavericks is their assertion that they cannot comment on the investigation. Before Monday’s unexpected victory over the short-handed Philadelphia 76ers, the Mavericks’ owner, Mark Cuban, reiterated to a group of reporters that the team was told by federal authorities not to comment about the case. The F.B.I. declined to comment.“I’ve got nothing to say — n-o-t-h-i-n-g,” Cuban said, spelling out the word and repeating a stance he has maintained since the allegations against Porzingis were first revealed Saturday night. “When I said federal authorities said for us not to comment, they were being serious.”Cuban and other Mavericks officials have referred all Porzingis-related questions to the N.B.A. The league office, however, has not responded to requests for further elaboration from The New York Times beyond its brief initial statement, from the N.B.A. spokesman Mike Bass, that “we are aware of the situation.”Riopelle said he had provided the district attorney’s office with materials that show the woman attempted to extort Porzingis.“We are confident that after the district attorney reviews these materials, they will recognize that the complaint in this case is completely meritless,” Riopelle said.Porzingis’s camp has received public backing from Michele Roberts, executive director of the National Basketball Players Association and a former trial lawyer.“We have been aware of these allegations for some time, have evaluated the accuser’s claims and, based on what is presently before us, stand with Kristaps,” Roberts said in a statement.The New York Times reported on Saturday that before the trade, the Knicks made the Mavericks aware of a potential “extortion issue” with Porzingis. One person briefed on the trade call between the teams and who was not authorized to discuss it publicly expressed the belief on Monday that the N.B.A. would not have allowed the trade to go through if the case against Porzingis appeared to be strong.It appears that the N.B.A. is letting that investigation play out or awaiting further developments before deciding on any action against Porzingis — although the league, under the terms of its joint policy with the players’ association on matters of sexual assault, can place players on administrative leave in these situations if it sees fit.Dallas had aggressively pursued the trade for Porzingis, a 7-foot-3 forward from Latvia, with an open determination to sign him to a new five-year maximum contract worth an estimated $158 million in July. Cuban declined to answer on Monday night when a reporter asked if the Mavericks remained eager to sign Porzingis to such a lucrative contract.Not much with the Mavericks is clear at the moment, although Carlisle insisted to the news media before the Philadelphia game that “basketballwise, it’s business as usual,” no matter what is swirling around Porzingis. Dallas then went out and took advantage of the sidelined Joel Embiid (knee) and Jimmy Butler (back) to follow up Sunday afternoon’s win at Oklahoma City — despite Doncic’s injury absence — with a 122-102 rout of the 76ers.“Did we look distracted?” Carlisle said.Marc Stein reported from Dallas, and Kevin Draper from New York. Zolan Kanno-Youngs contributed reporting from Washington.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballThe Mavericks rookie is drawing LeBron James comparisons and has “fast-forwarded” his team’s decision-making.By Marc SteinDALLAS — Dirk Nowitzki has seen many things in his 21 seasons with the Dallas Mavericks. What he had never seen, until last month, was a fellow Maverick who could attract nearly two dozen autograph seekers in subzero temperatures to greet the team bus on a Thursday morning in Detroit.Luka Doncic did just that in the 2 a.m. hour of Jan. 31, as the Mavericks pulled into a hotel adjacent to the world headquarters of General Motors, on the unglamorous end of a back-to-back set that began in New York.It is likewise safe to presume that none of Nowitzki’s other 197 teammates over two decades in Dallas could have inspired what happened mere hours later. In a swift-moving blockbuster trade, Dallas acquired Kristaps Porzingis from the Knicks to serve as Doncic’s sidekick, with Mavericks General Manager Donnie Nelson openly admitting that he pushed for the deal because Doncic has “fast-forwarded a lot of our decision-making.”These are the tales from just one day, albeit maybe the wildest day, of what Nowitzki frequently refers to as Lukamania.“When we get to cities now, even late at night, there are so many people waiting with things for him to sign that it’s almost like we’re the Warriors,” Nowitzki said. “Lukamania is real. We’re living it every day.”[Another Rookie: The Perimeter Can’t Protect You From Mitchell Robinson]This week brings another milestone for Doncic, who celebrates his 20th birthday on Thursday. He is averaging 20.9 points, 7.2 rebounds and 5.7 assists through 56 games and is responsible for four of the five triple-doubles in N.B.A. history recorded by teenagers. It is a start that has quickly validated Nelson’s long-held belief that Doncic possessed superstar potential.The only other rookie in league history to hit those levels over a full season was Oscar Robertson in 1960-61.“I love, love, love guys that can pass the ball,” Nelson said, prioritizing Doncic’s ability to run a team at 6 feet 7 inches over the fact he is already known for having the league’s second-most-feared step-back jump shot, behind only James Harden’s.“I knew I could play over here,” Doncic said, “but it’s better than I expected, for sure.”The gaudy numbers and worldwide interest in his exploits enabled Doncic to amass more than four million votes in N.B.A. All-Star balloting, trailing only LeBron James and Giannis Antetokounmpo. Doncic, in other words, finished higher in leaguewide balloting than Michael Jordan (fifth) did as a rookie. Higher, too, than James (13th) and even Yao Ming, who could manage only the fourth-highest total in 2003 despite the considerable voting might of Yao’s native China.Doncic’s instant production has also validated every pundit who insisted, amid no shortage of skepticism, that concerns about Doncic’s athleticism and corresponding ability to deal with the length of N.B.A. defenders were folly given the rampant success he achieved both at the club (Real Madrid) and national team (Slovenia) levels as an 18-year-old. In the process, Doncic has unleashed a torrent of second-guessing upon the teams (Phoenix, Sacramento and Atlanta) that let him slip to the Mavericks. Yet Doncic insists his maiden N.B.A. season, which appears destined to be christened with the league’s rookie of the year trophy, has not been as easy it looks.The Mavericks, you see, were 26-34 entering Wednesday night’s home date with Indiana and likely to miss the playoffs for a third consecutive season. They have traded away all four of Doncic’s projected fellow starters (Dennis Smith Jr., DeAndre Jordan, Wes Matthews and Harrison Barnes) in deals that netted Porzingis and roughly $30 million in salary-cap space, neither of which can help the team this season.It is the first time in Doncic’s life, since he took up basketball at age 7, that he has experienced losing. One hint of how well he’s coping with it: Doncic has pulled his jersey apart in frustration after a play gone awry — twice.“It’s harder than people think,” Doncic said.“He’s a winner — he won everything in Europe,” Juancho Hernangomez of the Denver Nuggets said. “So every time he loses, he gets so mad.”Hernangomez has been observing Doncic from close range for years, both on the floor — since Doncic played alongside Hernangomez’s brother, Charlotte’s Willy Hernangomez, at Real Madrid — and through their shared WhatsApp chat room, which houses various European players fond of the popular video game Fortnite. But Mavericks officials are not worried about a scouting report from a friend that paints Doncic as a sore loser.“He doesn’t handle losing well — I know that for a fact,” Dallas Coach Rick Carlisle said. “But I don’t handle losing well, either.”As recently as May 15, Mavericks executives were worried about Doncic — big time. Having known for more than a year that they wanted to draft him if they had the chance, team officials were crestfallen in Chicago when Dallas slipped from a projected No. 3 in that night’s draft lottery to No. 5. “It was devastating for us,” Nelson said. “We thought our chance to get him was gone because it’s really hard to trade up in the lottery.” Nowitzki betrayed a public hint of the organization’s disappointment when he tweeted this reaction: “Of course.”To move up high enough, Dallas ultimately had to persuade the Atlanta Hawks to surrender the No. 3 overall pick. It cost Dallas both the No. 5 pick, which Atlanta used to take Trae Young, as well as the Mavericks’ top pick in the 2019 draft. But the Dallas owner, Mark Cuban, blessed the deal, even at that price, because Nelson lobbied so hard for it. Five years earlier, during the 2013 draft, Nelson and his longtime international scout, Tony Ronzone, pushed for the Mavericks to use the No. 13 pick on a little-known Greek teenager named Giannis Antetokounmpo. Cuban wouldn’t allow it, given that Antetokounmpo, unlike Doncic, was mostly a mystery — and promptly regretted it as Antetokounmpo blossomed into a star in Milwaukee.So this time, after the disappointment of the lottery, Cuban blessed Nelson to do whatever it took to land Doncic. What the team got was the son of a former Slovene pro — Sasa Doncic — and a veteran of three full seasons in the EuroLeague and Spain’s La Liga with Real Madrid after Luka Doncic made his pro debut at 16.To the Mavericks’ delight, Doncic was more N.B.A.-ready than they ever dreamed — as his 16-for-29 shooting in the final three minutes of one-possession games this season would suggest. As Carlisle put it: “Unique background, unique skill set, unique body type.”“I hesitate to throw out names like LeBron James and Magic Johnson, who have been do-everything kind of stars, but it’s pretty clear now that Luka has many of those same traits and has proven that he can do a lot of those things,” Carlisle said. “He has deceptive size, strength and quickness — and an understanding beyond his years on how to use his body to make plays and draw fouls.”Carlisle is hardly alone in making such lofty comparisons. Miami’s Dwyane Wade, one of the league’s foremost James experts after their four seasons together with the Heat, has called Doncic’s passing “LeBron-like.” Los Angeles Clippers Coach Doc Rivers said of Doncic: “He’s my favorite player to watch almost, and not talking just rookies. First of all, he plays with a great joy — I love that. And he’s just so advanced in the way he plays. The sky’s the limit for him. Wait until he gets in shape.”Rivers was laughing when he tacked on that last line, but he did hit on a prime area of Year 1 concern with Doncic — conditioning.The Mavericks and Doncic’s representatives, headed by the longtime N.B.A. agent Bill Duffy, agreed shortly after the draft to impose as much rest on Doncic as possible from July through September after a nonstop run at the highest levels of international basketball for nearly a year. Doncic thus began the season heavier than his listed weight of 218 and has absorbed jibes about his diet ever since.But Mavericks officials are pleased with the gradual changes in Doncic’s dietary habits. At the team’s behest, Doncic hired a chef in December to prepare a number of meals for pregame and off-night consumption. Doncic has also begun working fresh juices into his routine.In Madrid, Doncic lived for the past two and a half years with his mother, Mirjam Poterbin, who raised Doncic while running two beauty salons in Ljubljana. (Doncic has long declined to discuss his father.)In Dallas, mom and son live separately near the American Airlines Center as Doncic grows into his independence, but still within walking distance.“This was his dream,” Poterbin said. “At 7 years old he was already talking about N.B.A. I cry a lot of times.”Yet there have been Year 1 challenges and disappointments for Doncic amid the Lukamania — and beyond the ever-present adjustment to playing for a team with scant postseason prospects.He watched helplessly as his fellow Spanish-speaking teammate J.J. Barea suffered a season-ending Achilles’ tear in January. He lived through his first big trade, seeing Dallas abruptly abort its planned Doncic/Smith Jr. partnership when the chance arose to acquire his pal Porzingis.“I was shocked,” Doncic said. “Europe doesn’t work like this.”Doncic has also struggled at times with his free throws, converting just 72.6 percent this season despite proving so adept at getting to the line (6.4 times per game). Mom, meanwhile, admitted that Doncic was “quite sad at first” about missing out on an All-Star spot because of a format change in which fan balloting, as of last season, only accounts for 50 percent of the equation for determining starters.The good news: These all rank as welcome tests — even the Mavericks’ sub-.500 record — compared to the early hurdles posed by the transition Doncic faced at 13. That was his tender age when Doncic left his mother back in Slovenia to enter the Real Madrid academy.“There are no words to describe this, really,” Poterbin said. “Honestly I would not go through it again.”“It was way harder,” Doncic said, “than coming from Madrid to here.”Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreBy Victor MatherThe Tampa Bay Lightning were almost unstoppable this season, racing to 62 wins in 82 games and the best point total since the N.H.L.’s current system began in 2006.The Lightning scored 103 more goals than they surrendered, powered by Steven Stamkos’s 45. Other stars of the deep team were Nikita Kucherov, who led the league in points (128) and assists (87); and Andrei Vasilevskiy, who was a rock in goal.“It’s one of the best I’ve ever played with,” said Stamkos, an 11-year veteran, when asked to evaluate his team in January. “I have no concerns about us taking our foot off the gas.”But that’s exactly what happened. The Lightning were swept in their best-of-seven series against the Columbus Blue Jackets, and it was not even close. Tampa Bay was outscored by 19-8 over four games. Stamkos and Kucherov had been held pointless heading into Tuesday’s series finale, and a slight reawakening from the stars was not nearly enough to stave off a 7-3 defeat that ended their season.There is a case to be made that the Lightning are the biggest playoff underachievers in sports history. While there have been big playoff busts before, has a team this good ever performed so badly?Winning the Presidents Trophy for the league’s best regular season record is hardly a guarantee of playoff success. Six times since the trophy was introduced in 1986, the team that won it lost in the first round.But all of those teams at least won a game in their series. The worst bust was the 2012 Canucks, which lost its opening series four games to one. But with 111 points, they were not as dominant as Tampa Bay, which had 128 this year. And they did win Game 4 of their series against the Los Angeles Kings, who went on to win the Stanley Cup.Going further back, the 1938 Bruins and 1929 Canadiens failed to win a playoff game after having the best record. But those were in best-of-five series, and both teams got byes, so they did not technically lose in the first round. And both lost all three games by a single goal.Several N.B.A. teams in recent years have lost their first playoff series despite having recorded the best regular-season record. But all of them won at least two games in that series. The most egregious failure probably belongs to the 2007 Dallas Mavericks, whose sterling 67-15 record behind Dirk Nowitzki, Josh Howard and Jason Terry was tarnished by a four-games-to-two loss to the eighth-seeded Warriors.The 2004 Los Angeles Sparks are the only W.N.B.A. team with the season’s best record to lose in the first round, dropping a 2-1 series to the Sacramento Monarchs.Baseball started its multi-round playoff system in 1969. The first team to have the league’s best record and then get swept in the first round was the 1980 Yankees at 103-59, who lost to the Royals. The Angels in 2014 were 98-64 and were also swept by the Royals in a five-game series.But though both of those teams had fine regular seasons, they did not approach the dominance of the Lightning this season. The 2001 Mariners (116-46) and 1906 Cubs (116-36) would be considered big postseason disappointments. But the Mariners made it through one playoff round before losing to the Yankees, and the Cubs, playing in an era when the World Series was the entire postseason, lost four games to two.The N.F.L., of course, is a different animal as its playoffs consist of single-elimination games. The undefeated 2007 Patriots are remembered for losing to the Giants in the Super Bowl, but won two playoff games first. The worst loss at the first hurdle belongs to the 2011 Packers, who were 15-1, but lost to the 9-7 Giants, 37-20.Only two top seeds have lost in the first round of the N.C.A.A tournament. In 1998, the Stanford women’s team, 21-5 and seeded No. 1 in their region, lost to No. 16 Harvard. Last season, the Virginia men matched that ignominious feat when they lost to Maryland, Baltimore County.That Virginia team was No. 1 in the country after a 31-2 season. Though it was only one game, their defeat is probably the closest to the flameout that the Lightning endured.And Virginia went on to win the title the next year, a possible sign of hope for the Lightning on Tuesday night as their season ended in disaster.An earlier version of this article misstated the number of points Nikita Kucherov had in the regular season. It was 128, not 120.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBERLIN — Retired NBA champion Dirk Nowitzki, who spent 21 seasons at the Dallas Mavericks, could see himself returning to basketball as coach or manager in a few years time, the German said.The 40-year-old future Hall of Famer ended his sparkling career last week after more than two decades at the Mavericks with whom he was crowned NBA champion in 2011 and was a 14-time All Star."After one or two years I can see myself being happy... as a coach or a manager," Nowitzki told Germany's Die Zeit newspaper in an interview to be published on Wednesday."I would like to be a mentor for a young player and... accompany them through their career in my very own way."For now, Nowitzki is content to put his feet up and enjoy a glass of wine and a slice of cake, something he could not do for years as a professional player."In the past week I had some cake and I also had my first glass of wine after 10 years of abstinence," he said. "I was really warm inside after only a few sips. That felt good."Nowitzki holds the record for having played the most seasons for the same club and is sixth in the all-time scorers list of the NBA.Nagging injuries, however, took their toll on his body and continuing his career past the current season was impossible."What I did not want to happen under any circumstance was to say goodbye and be sitting at home, thinking 'damn, you would really like to play now. Why did you do this'," he said."But my body was not good. To be honest my foot where I had surgery last year was not well throughout the year. I knew it would not be getting any better." (Reporting by Karolos Grohmann; Editing by Christian Radnedge)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPHOENIX — John MacLeod, the longtime NBA coach who led the Phoenix Suns to the 1976 NBA Finals, has died. He was 81.MacLeod's son, Matt, confirmed his father's death Sunday to The Associated Press. The elder MacLeod fought Alzheimer's disease for more than a decade.MacLeod is the winningest coach in Suns history, going 579-543 in the regular season from 1973-87. He also coached the Dallas Mavericks from 1987-89 and the New York Knicks in 1990-91, finishing his 18-year head coaching career with a 707-657 mark.MacLeod had his most success in Phoenix, capped by the 1975-76 "Sundarella Suns" run to the NBA Finals. The Suns lost to Boston in six games in the finals, with the Celtics' triple-overtime victory in Game 5 at Boston Garden regarded as one of the greatest games ever."His passion for the game was matched only by his endearing personality, humility and class, a man who was loved by everyone that had the pleasure of interacting with him," the Suns said in a statement. "Coach MacLeod was a winner in every sense and will be dearly missed by our entire Phoenix Suns family."His Phoenix teams made nine playoff appearances, also reaching the Western Conference finals in 1979 and 1984. He had a franchise- record 37 playoff victories, and was placed in the Phoenix Suns Ring of Honor in 2012.MacLeod also worked as an assistant with Phoenix, Denver and Golden State, ending his coaching career with the Warriors in 2006. He was a college head coach at Oklahoma from 1967-73 and Notre Dame from 1991-99, with son Matt a member of the Fighting Irish squad in his father's last two seasons. MacLeod starred at Providence High School in Clarksville, Indiana, and in college at Bellarmine.MacLeod also is survived by wife Carol and daughter Kathleen.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe Knicks shook the N.B.A. on Thursday by abruptly cutting ties with Kristaps Porzingis, sending the player long billed as their 7-foot 3-inch savior to the Dallas Mavericks in a blockbuster trade that could make New York a major player in free agency this July.The deal, which was first disclosed by The New York Times, came one week before the N.B.A.’s trading deadline and changes the course of the Knicks’ franchise. Porzingis, Tim Hardaway Jr., Courtney Lee and Trey Burke have all been shipped to Dallas in exchange for the promising guard Dennis Smith Jr., who was a first-round draft pick in 2017, two future first-round picks and the expiring contracts of the veterans DeAndre Jordan and Wesley Matthews.Porzingis, who was increasingly unhappy about the Knicks’ constant losing and is scheduled to become a restricted free agent July 1, asked to be traded on Thursday, according to both a team statement and subsequent comments that Knicks President Steve Mills and General Manager Scott Perry made on a conference call Thursday evening.But the Knicks and the Mavericks were already far along in trade talks before Porzingis lodged that request, according to two people with knowledge of the situation who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.“As is standard for this time of year, we were exploring various options on potential trades,” Perry said in a statement. “Considering the uncertainty regarding Kristaps’s free-agent status and his request today to be traded, we made a trade that we are confident improves the franchise.”On the conference call, Mills described Porzingis as a player “that no longer wanted to be part of our group.”In a farewell Twitter post Thursday night, Porzingis said: “New York will always have a special place in my heart. Grateful for everybody who made this journey so special for my family and I.”Dallas’s willingness to acquire the contracts of Hardaway and Lee in order to land Porzingis clinched the deal and will position the Knicks to create nearly $75 million in salary-cap space this summer — enough to offer maximum contracts to two of the top players expected to be free agents. Golden State’s Kevin Durant and Boston’s Kyrie Irving are frequently mentioned as Knicks targets.Porzingis established himself as an All-Star last season but tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee in a game early last February. He has not played since and never regained his trust in the organization, which has been waning since the final days of Phil Jackson’s ill-fated tenure as team president and could not be repaired by Mills, Perry and David Fizdale, who is in his first season as the Knicks’ coach.Even though Porzingis has been sidelined for nearly a year, Dallas was sufficiently motivated to surrender prized assets such as Smith and the two first-round picks (likely to be conveyed in 2021 and 2023) to get the deal done.The Mavericks now hope to win over Porzingis, 23, keep him in Dallas and make him the team’s co-star alongside the 6-7 Luka Doncic, who is only 19 but has already emerged as a standout in his first season in the N.B.A. In Dallas’s dream scenario, Porzingis, who is from Latvia, and Doncic, who is from Slovenia, will form a partnership reminiscent of the retired Steve Nash and Dirk Nowitzki, who, at 40 and in his 21st season with the Mavericks, may be playing his final N.B.A. campaign.“We obviously think Porzingis is a great young talent, similar in many ways to Dirk,” Mavericks Coach Rick Carlisle told 103.3 FM radio in Dallas before his team played Thursday night in Detroit. “This is kind of a Dirk-and-Nash type of situation, only these guys are taller.”For the Knicks, being able to shed the contracts of both Hardaway and Lee had become a priority before next week’s trade deadline, as  The Times reported last week. So they jumped at the opportunity to do the deal with Dallas rather than spend the next week seeing what other teams might offer for Porzingis.The Knicks have been regarded in league circles for some time as the foremost threat to sign Durant away from the Warriors in July. The deal with Dallas means they will have the financial wherewithal to do so — and likewise to pursue Irving.The Knicks, with a league-worst record of 10-40, are also on course to have a 14 percent chance at securing the top pick in the June draft, which would enable them to select Zion Williamson, the highly coveted Duke forward.Smith was the No. 9 overall pick in the 2017 draft, passed over by the Knicks and Jackson, who drafted a different backcourt player: Frank Ntilikina of France. Dallas has been trying to trade Smith for weeks, having quickly concluded that the ball-dominant guard, despite his robust athleticism, is not an ideal fit with Doncic.In a timely sales job to his new employers, Smith posted a career-high 15 assists, along with 13 points and 10 rebounds, in the Mavericks’ 114-90 victory over the Knicks on Wednesday night at Madison Square Garden.Jordan and Matthews are on expiring contracts that the Knicks can try to trade before next Thursday’s 3 p.m. deadline. It is widely expected that both players will seek contract buyouts from the Knicks if they are not traded again before the deadline so they can seek roster spots with playoff-bound teams for the remainder of the season. Yet it should be noted that Jordan is one of Durant’s closest friends, which might factor into where he wants to be in the months ahead.Porzingis, whose selection at No. 4 over all by the Knicks in the 2015 draft was initially panned by critics, made steady progress in his first two and a half seasons and was averaging 22.7 points, 6.6 rebounds and 2.4 blocks per game at the time of his injury. Perhaps as impressively, when healthy, Porzingis consistently gave the impression that he had the fortitude to thrive in the intense, media-driven atmosphere that surrounds the Knicks in New York.There will now be immense pressure on the Knicks to land players at the Durant/Irving level to justify the trade — assuming Porzingis recovers fully from his A.C.L. tear. Kemba Walker, the Charlotte Hornets’ All-Star guard, is another free agent known to interest the Knicks.No matter what happens in the free-agent market this summer, Dallas has furnished the Knicks with two attractive draft assets. The Mavericks surrendered their first available first-round pick (2021 at the earliest) that has no protections and a pick protected only through the first 10 choices (as early as the 2023 draft). Dallas was not permitted to trade its top pick in the draft this June because it already traded that selection to Atlanta in the deal last June to acquire the draft rights to Doncic. Regardless, the Knicks are already looking ahead.“We’re extremely confident in the direction that we’re headed,” Perry said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinThe Knicks’ sudden trade sending Kristaps Porzingis, their franchise player, to the Dallas Mavericks last week has raised a swirl of questions about the team’s motivations.Good news: We have answers.Porzingis was abruptly dispatched to Dallas last Thursday, along with Tim Hardaway Jr., Courtney Lee and Trey Burke, for guard Dennis Smith Jr., two future first-round picks and the sizable expiring contracts of DeAndre Jordan and Wes Matthews.Let’s dig into six of the biggest curiosities surrounding the departure of the Knicks’ beloved No. 6.Steve Mills, the Knicks’ president, cited worries that Porzingis was growing detached from the organization as a key factor in the team’s decision to seek out trades for the best big man it has seen since Patrick Ewing.It turns out that the Knicks spent much of January quietly canvassing the league for potential Porzingis deals, according to a person familiar with the talks who was not authorized to discuss them publicly. They tried — unsuccessfully — to trade for untouchables such as Utah’s Donovan Mitchell and Sacramento’s De’Aaron Fox.But the Knicks knew all along that the Mavericks had the wherewithal to meet many of their trade objectives and, just as crucially, that Dallas was generally unfazed by the torn anterior cruciate ligament Porzingis suffered last February.In Smith, Dallas had a recent top-10 pick to offer. The Mavericks also proved willing to give up two future first-round draft picks in a Porzingis deal while absorbing the contracts of Hardaway and Lee. The Knicks were able to shed both of those deals because Dallas had two huge expiring contracts to send back (Jordan and Matthews) and had long been fond of Hardaway despite his defensive deficiencies.Perhaps you are a Smith skeptic. Or just a Knicks skeptic. Those are both understandable positions. But a trade that returns three quality assets and will create the kind of salary-cap space this summer that the Knicks must have to chase Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving in free agency is no salary dump.It is a gamble, true, but it is also an undeniable haul.The Mavericks’ interest in Porzingis has been an open secret to the Knicks for years. One Mavericks official estimated that Dallas approached the Knicks “about a hundred times” before the team ever showed any willingness to discuss trading him.The Knicks, for their part, had expressed interest in Smith all season. The teams, according to two people with knowledge of their talks, also had been discussing a Hardaway-for-Matthews trade for weeks before Jan. 28, which both sides pinpoint as the first date the Knicks were open to discussing a Porzingis blockbuster.The parties, as a result, did not need long to build a trade framework.It certainly did not hurt that the Mavericks made their lone Madison Square Garden appearance of the season two nights later. Knicks General Manager Scott Perry and his Mavericks counterpart, Donnie Nelson, met before the game in a Garden hallway before taking their huddle behind closed doors and summoning Mills.By night’s end, Smith had registered a triple-double in a resounding Dallas victory and the Mavericks were offering to seal the Porzingis deal by handshake, since Mark Cuban, the Dallas owner, was in the building. The Knicks, however, asked for more time.The reason? Porzingis and his brother Janis, the player’s agent, had requested a Thursday morning meeting.When asked at a Monday news conference to address his reported desire to be traded, Porzingis passed.“I would rather just focus on what’s ahead of me than looking back,” Porzingis said.A person with knowledge of the meeting, however, said it was requested by the Porzingis brothers — after they had canceled a similar meeting earlier in January — and that it lasted less than five minutes. Later in the day, according to the person, Janis Porzingis gave the Knicks a list of four teams he and Kristaps had deemed acceptable trade destinations.The Nets and the Los Angeles Clippers were among those four teams, but Dallas was not. The Knicks, meanwhile, were told Porzingis was prepared to leave the team and continue his knee rehabilitation in Spain if he was not moved by Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline.It was not long after receiving the four-team list that the Knicks notified the Mavericks they would do the deal.The Knicks were convinced that no team besides Dallas would take the Hardaway and Lee contracts and package a player of Smith’s caliber with first-round draft picks.The Knicks also were fearful that letting the Dallas offer linger, or engaging other teams in the week leading up to the trade deadline, would enable the Porzingis camp to scare off the Mavericks or other potential suitors by threatening to sign long-term only with teams like the Nets or the Clippers.In a radio interview Monday with 105.3 FM in Dallas, Cuban said, “Shopping a deal is a lot more complicated than it sounds.”Risky as it would be given his uncertain health, Porzingis has the option to play next season for a mere $4.5 million and become an unrestricted free agent in July 2020. The Knicks’ mounting fears that he would exercise that option, or say he was only willing to sign a one-year deal with a player option in Year 2, are largely what convinced team officials they had to pursue trades.But the Mavericks are one of those dice-rolling teams, like Boston, Houston and most recently Oklahoma City when it traded for Paul George, that bet on themselves in these situations. Dallas is already expressing confidence it can get Porzingis’s signature on a five-year, $158 million contract this summer.Porzingis has pre-existing relationships with Dirk Nowitzki and Luka Doncic, the Mavericks’ rising star from Slovenia. And neither Mavericks Coach Rick Carlisle nor Cuban has been bashful about comparing a Doncic/Porzingis partnership to the Nowitzki/Steve Nash duo that was busted up after just six seasons. Nash was allowed to sign with Phoenix in July 2004, after which both Nowitzki and Nash won most valuable player honors separately.“It was my mistake to not keep Dirk and Steve together longer,” Cuban said Monday night. “I won’t make the same mistake with Luka and K.P.”It is simply not possible to answer this today. Not without knowing, for starters, how the Knicks will fare in free agency — and how Porzingis will bounce back from his knee injury.But I can tell you this: In my discussions with rival team executives, I have heard from many more who praise the trade than those who question how much the Knicks received in return.Also: The threat of the Knicks persuading Durant to leave one of the most dominant teams in league history, based on the latest vibes emanating from the Bay Area, has never felt more real to the Warriors themselves.The Knicks have received considerable criticism for smearing Porzingis on his way out. And let’s face it: Believe-it-when-I-see-it scoffing at the notion that the game’s biggest names would be willing to play for the Knicks, when they are still owned and operated by James Dolan, is fully expected given how the last two decades have gone since the Knicks’ trip to the N.B.A. finals in 1999.Yet there is far more to like than dislike about the deal, even if Porzingis becomes everything Dallas dreams he can be. The Knicks move forward with massive financial flexibility and a young core of Smith, Kevin Knox, Allonzo Trier and Frank Ntilikina, as well as seven first-round picks over the next five years — chips they can either build around or offer in trades for someone starry like Anthony Davis.Processing all that should bring Knicks-loving New Yorkers some winter warmth.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMEMPHIS, Tenn. — Salah Mejri scored a career-high 19 points, including the tying basket in regulation and the first seven points of overtime as the Dallas Mavericks defeated the Memphis Grizzlies 129-127 on Sunday night.Mejri, who had nine rebounds and four blocks, was 7 of 12 from the floor and made a pair of 3-pointers. Trey Burke led the Mavericks with 24 points, 14 in the fourth quarter and overtime. Justin Jackson and Dorian Finney-Smith added 16 points apiece, and Finney-Smith grabbed 12 rebounds.Delon Wright had his second consecutive triple-double with 20 points, 13 rebounds and 12 assists for the Grizzlies. Justin Holiday paced Memphis with a career-high 30 points.Memphis led 112-110 after Ivan Rabb hit one of two free throws with 54.5 seconds left in regulation. After four misses inside by the Mavericks, they pulled even when Mejri scored on a putback with 1.5 seconds remaining.That sent the game to overtime after Memphis couldn't get a shot off before the horn sounded ending regulation.In the extra period, Mejri scored on a pair of dunks and then a 3-pointer to give Dallas an early lead. Memphis tied it but could never go ahead, and the Mavericks made three of four free throws in the final 15 seconds.Wright's 3-point attempt as the horn sounded was short.TIP-INSMavericks: Dirk Nowitzki, who only played in the first half, has appeared in 76 games against the Grizzlies — the most regular-season games against the franchise by any NBA player. He is also second in scoring against the Grizzlies behind Kobe Bryant. . Nowitzki grabbed his 10,000th defensive rebound in the first quarter, becoming the fifth NBA player to reach that milestone. . Dallas rookie Luka Doncic missed his fourth game in the last five with a variety of injuries, most notably a bruised right thigh.Grizzlies: A 3-pointer in the second quarter set a franchise record for 3s in a season with 768. The previous mark of 767 was set in 2016-17. ... Bruno Caboclo had a career-high 17 rebounds. His previous best was 13 on March 27 against Golden State. . Point guard Mike Conley missed his fourth straight game with left ankle soreness.UP NEXTMavericks: Host the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday in their final home game of the season.Grizzlies: Play at Detroit on Tuesday in their last road game.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDirk Nowitzki was mum all season on his future plans but after a rousing performance in the Dallas Mavericks' home finale Tuesday, the star finally announced the decision everyone expected."Wow. I'm a little overwhelmed, as you would think," Nowitzki told the sellout crowd after the Mavericks' 120-109 victory over the Phoenix Suns. "As you guys might expect, this is my last home game."Nowitzki made his much-anticipated retirement announcement after delivering a season-high 30-point performance, with five 3-pointers, against the Suns. The 7-footer scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history (31,540 points) finished the game with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 33 minutes.The 40-year-old Nowitzki, whose playing career will officially end Wednesday night when the Mavs play the San Antonio Spurs, was honored by the appearance of five of his childhood heroes -- Charles Barkley, Larry Bird, Scottie Pippen, Shawn Kemp and fellow German Detlef Schrempf -- for a postgame ceremony that included heartfelt speeches by Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle and owner Mark Cuban."Amazing that my heroes came out here for this game," Nowitzki said. "Thank you guys so much. Love you guys. Grew up watching you and idolizing you guys so this means more than you will ever know."Mark, can't wait to see what you've got for my jersey retirement. I mean, this is a high bar that you set. But as you guys might expect, this is my last home game."Nowitzki's final season didn't actually begin until mid-December thanks to a longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career and averaged 6.6 points in fewer than 15 minutes a game.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted M-V-P! M-V-P! Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2007 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDALLAS — Whether they are trying to keep their 34-year-old playmaker Jose Juan Barea spry or aiming to help their 19-year-old phenom Luka Doncic dodge the infamous rookie wall, the Dallas Mavericks turn to the same resource: A blood test.It is not just any blood test. The Mavericks import frequent testing from the Irish company Orreco, which is in its third season making personalized recommendations for Mavericks players regarding athletic workloads and diets, largely through the study of blood analysis.Although some in the sports medicine community have questioned whether the value of such blood work is overstated, Dallas leans heavily on Orreco’s team of consultants and their assessments of how to maximize player-readiness.“All the things N.B.A. teams talk about — players’ minutes, their load, their tracking data, their camera data — all of that is external data used to try to predict what’s going on internally,” said Casey Smith, the head of Dallas’s athletic training staff. “What we’re doing is trying to get a little bit of a look at what’s actually going on internally.”Dallas is one of just two N.B.A. teams, along with the Knicks, to hire Orreco, which proposes customized remedies to combat fatigue and tries to identify increased risk for injury and illness by obtaining a range of data from players’ blood and feeding it into machine-learning programs.Taking cues from Orreco’s findings, Smith and Jeremy Holsopple, the Mavericks’ athletic performance director, tailor an individualized mix of training, rest and recovery for each of Dallas’s 17 players. The Mavericks' owner, Mark Cuban, said the team pays Orreco nearly $150,000 per year.No Maverick has embraced this process more than Barea, who understands all too well that fatigued players face an increased risk of soft-tissue injuries.Two seasons ago, amid worrisome forecasts from what Smith referred to as “the numbers,” Barea tore a calf muscle in a November 2016 game against Boston.Ever since, Barea has proactively sought updates on his levels of oxidative stress (worrisome as they get higher) and white blood cell counts (which can indicate illness or infection when they spike or indicate less immune prevention as they get lower).This season, Barea is playing some of his best basketball (averaging 10.9 points and 5.7 assists in just 19.8 minutes per game) and said he is “having more fun than ever” while carefully adhering to the suggestions Smith gives based off Orreco’s data.“I like it,” Barea said. “At this point in my career, you have to work more on the body. They let me know what’s going on — like what you need to eat or what you need to stop eating. I want the feedback.”Four times a season, Orreco staff members come to Dallas to administer a full venous blood draw on Mavericks players. To supplement those visits, Dallas mixes in frequent capillary blood draws for its players in which a quick pinprick sample is taken to provide near-instant readings of oxidative stress levels in the blood from a player’s ear or index finger.League rules allow players to refuse any blood testing if they find the procedures too invasive, but the team says only one Maverick, whom they declined to identify, had done so.“It’s your health, so it’s your decision,” Smith said.The samples, according to the Orreco co-founder Dr. Brian Moore, enable the firm to analyze a player’s hematology and biochemistry by assessing nearly 50 biomarkers.This includes examining creatine kinase to assess muscle damage and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein to measure inflammation — two areas of particular concern for basketball players because of the nature of their on-court movements. Hydration and nutrition indicators — such as vitamin D levels, and iron and fatty acid profiles — are among the additional variables analyzed to determine where each player lands on a four-zone “readiness to perform” index.Along with the biomarker panels, Orreco’s algorithms also take into account game minutes, air miles traveled, sleep data and reaction times that are obtained from wearable devices used during practices.The rules that allow players to opt out of blood testing are in place because regulating how teams use biometrics and the data such research produces — specifically whether the data belongs to the teams, players or the league itself — remains an evolving point of concern throughout the N.B.A. As a safeguard amid the rise of wearable technology in practice sessions, league policy threatens fines of up to $250,000 per team for the misuse of biometric data.Yet Smith insists that the collaboration with Orreco has improved the Mavericks’ ability to track the onset of illness and keep players “more available” for games. In the 2016-17 season, according to data maintained by InStreetClothes.com, a website that tracks injuries in the N.B.A., Dallas players missed only four games due to illness — less than half the league average of 8.5.The Mavericks then lost a league-low zero games to illness last season, when the league average was 7.1 games per team, according to the site.“Does that mean we win more games?” Smith said. “Not necessarily. But it gives us a better shot.”Still, with the sports and fitness world littered with treatments not supported by vetted published studies, some independent experts have their doubts.Dr. Anthony Romeo, the chief of orthopedics at the Rothman Institute in New York and a former team physician for the Chicago White Sox who also worked with the Chicago Bulls, said he would maintain “a healthy level of skepticism” about Orreco’s work until it reveals more about the biomarkers it studies and the data being gathered.”I would be cautious and say it’s investigational,” Romeo said. “It’s a very interesting area of research and we applaud the efforts that they’re making. But at this time nothing supplants outstanding coaches and trainers that can do a visual analysis and understand their athletes from the traditional methods to know whether they’re training too hard or too little.”“At some point,” Romeo said of Orreco, “they’re going to have to share their data in a way that it can be repeated so that we know it’s true.”Said Dr. Robert Dimeff, a team physician for the Dallas Stars of the N.H.L. and a past president of the American Medical Society for Sports Medicine: “I think this is a research-based tool at this point in time, but I don’t think it’s ready for prime time. What they’re doing is something that in 10 years from now we may say, ‘Wow, this is absolutely great information.’“We can’t say that right now. But what they’re doing is trying to put some science behind recommendations and I think that’s very admirable.”Despite such skepticism, Cuban remains one of the biggest proponents of Orreco’s work. After watching an interview in which the openly data-hungry Cuban discussed his growing fascination with artificial intelligence, Moore wrote to Cuban before the 2016-17 season with a pitch that Orreco could “optimize performance, accelerate recovery and prolong careers” by using “high-end computing to find patterns in the data.”“Our job is to help the Mavericks make better decisions,” Moore said.Cuban was quickly sold.“Managing player load is as important as understanding traditional basketball analytics,’’ Cuban said. “Causation is always more valuable that correlation.”Although the Mavericks are hardly alone in embracing bioanalytics, they are on a very short list of top-level professional sports franchises that are willing to ignore the ultra-secretive norm and publicly acknowledge its work with Orreco.Aside from the Mavericks, only Newcastle United of the English Premier League has acknowledged being an Orreco customer. Through a person with knowledge of the contract, The Times confirmed that the Knicks are the other N.B.A. team to use Orreco as extensively as the Mavericks.Orreco also consults with a handful of individual players, including Wilson Chandler of the Philadelphia 76ers and Quincy Pondexter of the San Antonio Spurs.The company, though, said it could not discuss the Knicks, or the two Major League Baseball clubs and another Premier League soccer team it counts as clients.Smith cited Quest Diagnostics’ Blueprint Fit as another top practitioner in the field that he suspects has an N.B.A. clientele and acknowledged that several of his peers within the league are aware of what Dallas is doing, and asking lots of questions.“And I think there will be more,” Smith said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDALLAS — Dallas Mavericks star Dirk Nowitzki announced his retirement from the NBA after a record 21 seasons with the same franchise, giving the fans the secret he had kept all season after scoring 30 points in his final home game, a 120-109 win over the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday night.The 40-year-old showed his emotion during the game, fighting back tears just before action resumed at the start of the second quarter following a tribute video that detailed his holiday visit to a children's hospital.Nowitzki's final basket in Dallas was his signature one-legged fadeaway from slightly above the free throw line for a 120-108 lead with 1:22 remaining after the Mavericks had let a 30-point halftime cushion get cut to four in the fourth quarter.After speeches from Larry Bird and others he idolized growing up in Germany, Nowitzki told the crowd, "As you guys might expect, this is my last home game."The sellout crowd that followed owner Mark Cuban's orders by showing up early chanted "M-V-P" and "One more year" throughout the game. But after he made the announcement, the chant turned to "Thank you, Dirk" as Cuban started to speak.The 14-time All-Star has one game remaining, Dallas' season finale at San Antonio on Wednesday night."This is obviously super, super emotional," Nowitzki said. "Just too many people to really thank. I put you guys on a helluva ride with a lot of ups and downs, and you guys always stuck with me and supported me, so I appreciate it."Larger-than-life placards of Nowitzki's face were perched on most of the roughly 20,000 seats at American Airlines Center, and a huge mural hung over one of the entrances to the arena.Nowitzki, a few steps slower than in his prime and a role player on a team now led by rookie sensation and fellow European Luka Doncic, was serenaded in every road arena like it was a farewell tour.Last month, he gave the home folks the thrill of passing Wilt Chamberlain to regain sixth on the career scoring list. Nowitzki reached that spot last season, but LeBron James passed him. Nowitzki, who led the Mavericks to their only championship in 2011, has 31,540 points with one game left.The NBA's highest-scoring foreign-born player broke Kobe Bryant's record of 20 seasons with the same franchise, although it took longer than expected because of setbacks following ankle surgery that sidelined Nowitzki for the first 26 games. Bryant retired from the Lakers three years ago.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.He secured his season high in points with a straightaway 3-pointer, his fifth of the game, early in the third quarter for 22 points. That was followed by a rare slam dunk that elicited howls from the crowd and a big smile across Nowitzki's face.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history then drained another jumper for 26 points and an 80-49 Dallas lead. He re-entered the game with three minutes left and hit two more buckets to go 11 of 31 from the floor. He finished with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 32 minutes.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points -- one off his career best -- with 26 coming in the fourth quarter, to get the Suns as close as 105-100 with 4:20 to play.Crawford, 39, became the oldest player ever to score 50-plus points in an NBA game. The old mark was held by Michael Jordan, who was 38 when he scored 51 for the Washington Wizards on Dec. 29, 2001, against the Charlotte Hornets.According to ESPN, Crawford also became the first player to score 50 points for four different franchises (Chicago Bulls, New York Knicks, Golden State Warriors and now Phoenix).The Suns closed out a miserable season, finishing 19-63.A longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery kept Nowitzki out until mid-December. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career, and averaged 6.6 points in less than 15 minutes a game before Tuesday.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted "M-V-P! M-V-P!" Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2006-07 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.The future of the Mavs (33-48), rookie Luka Doncic, also didn't disappoint, notching his eighth triple-double with 21 points, 11 assists and 16 rebounds. He moved into sole possession of third place for most triple-doubles by a rookie.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy Marc SteinKristaps Porzingis of the Dallas Mavericks is under investigation by the New York Police Department after a recent accusation that he sexually assaulted a woman last season while he was playing for the Knicks, according to two people familiar with the case who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.Porzingis, who had not been charged as of Saturday night, denied the allegation through a statement from his lawyer Roland G. Riopelle.“We are aware of the complaint that was made against Mr. Porzingis on Friday and unequivocally deny the allegation,” Riopelle said. “We made a formal referral to federal law enforcement on December 20, 2018, based on the accuser’s extortionate demands.“We also alerted the National Basketball Association months ago, and they are aware of the ongoing investigation of the accuser by federal law enforcement. We cannot comment further on an ongoing federal investigation.”The N.B.A. spokesman Mike Bass said in a statement that the league was “aware of the situation,” but he did not elaborate.An N.Y.P.D. spokesman would not confirm or address any complaints against a specific individual, saying, “The N.Y.P.D. takes sexual assault and all rape cases extremely seriously, and urges anyone who has been a victim to file a report so we can perform a comprehensive investigation, and offer support and services to survivors.”Mavericks officials declined to comment, and a spokesman for the Knicks said, “This is Kristaps’s personal matter and not related to the Knicks.”The New York Post first reported Saturday that the woman told the police of the suspected attack from Feb. 7, 2018, on Thursday. Porzingis sustained a torn anterior crucial ligament in his left knee while playing for the Knicks on Feb. 6, 2018. The woman, according to the report, said Porzingis assaulted her hours later at the Sky building in Midtown Manhattan where each had a residence.The woman waited more than a year to come forward, according to The Post, because she had discussed receiving a payment of $68,000 from Porzingis. The Post also reported that the woman is in her 20s and that the N.Y.P.D.’s Special Victims Division has taken over the case.The Mavericks acquired the 7-foot-3 Porzingis from the Knicks in a seven-player trade on Jan. 31, but Porzingis has not played this season for either team while recovering from the knee injury. On the call with the league office to complete the blockbuster deal, Dallas was apprised by the Knicks of a potential “extortion issue” with Porzingis, according to one person familiar with the details of the call who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Porzingis will become a restricted free agent in July and is eligible for a five-year maximum contract worth an estimated $160 million from the Mavericks. Team officials have said repeatedly since acquiring Porzingis that they hope to sign him as quickly as possible.LAKERS SHUT DOWN JAMES LeBron James’s disappointing first season as a Los Angeles Laker ended abruptly when the team announced that it would hold him out of its final six games as a health precaution.“After consulting with our team doctors and medical staff, we have decided to hold LeBron out of games for the remainder of the season,” the Lakers said in a statement distributed on Saturday afternoon.“This decision will allow his groin to fully heal, and is best for the future success of both LeBron and the Lakers.”James thus ends his debut season as a Laker with just 55 of a possible 82 games played. He averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists and moved into fourth in career scoring — ahead of Michael Jordan — with 32,543 points.NETS 110, CELTICS 96 D’Angelo Russell scored 20 of his 29 points in another blistering third quarter against Boston, leading the Nets to a victory over short-handed Boston at Barclays Center.Back from a seven-game trip that lasted more than two weeks, the Nets had a happy homecoming largely because of Russell, who added 10 assists and finished with 25 points after halftime.It was the third straight time he hurt the Celtics in the third quarter, and the Nets really needed this one after going 2-5 on the road and dropping into seventh place in the Eastern Conference. They are a half-game behind Detroit and lead eighth-place Miami by a half-game and Orlando by one.“I told you, man, every one is going to be worth it,” Russell said. “We need it, scratching and clawing for every one of them.”Caris LeVert added 15 points for the Nets, who had dropped the final two games of the trip and still face a tough stretch now that they are back home.“We know that all these games coming up are playoff games,” Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “It’s just how we have to look at it. We’re in it. We can’t shy away from it.” (AP)HEAT 100, KNICKS 92 Dion Waiters scored 28 points and Dwyane Wade added 16 in his last game at Madison Square Garden as Miami beat the Knicks.Wade had back-to-back baskets in Miami’s 8-0 run to start the fourth quarter after the game was tied through three. He shot 6 for 16 and added seven rebounds in 27 minutes off the bench.Wade received a nice hand from the crowd when he walked to the scorer’s table for the first time midway through the first quarter. He then received an ovation when he checked into the game with 4 minutes 37 seconds left in the period.The Knicks honored Wade’s 15-year career with a video tribute with 2:47 remaining in the opening period after a Miami timeout. Wade then drove to the basket for his first points of the night.Wade, a 13-time All-Star, bid farewell to the Garden by planting a kiss on the Knicks logo at center court.“You love playing here,” Wade said, adding: “When I played in college, I got the opportunity to play here, the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic. It was just immediately, that feel, and the feel was there.”Emmanuel Mudiay scored 24 points for the Knicks, who have lost six straight and 14 of 15 over all, and eight in a row at home. (AP)HARDEN SCORES 50 James Harden had 50 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists, scoring 10 straight Houston points down the stretch to help the host Rockets beat Sacramento, 119-108.Harden had his 42nd career triple-double and his third 50-point game in the last six. He made seven 3-pointers to become the ninth player in N.B.A. history to reach 2,000 career baskets from beyond the arc.(AP)A 3-POINTER RECORD, AGAIN The N.B.A. set a record for 3-pointers made for the seventh straight year, after the 25,808th of the season was made Saturday night. The league is on pace for about an 8 percent rise in 3-pointers over last season — and 3s are being made 57 percent more often than they were five years ago. (AP)Ali Watkins, Kelly Whiteside and Zolan Kanno-Youngs contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAnthony Davis has informed the New Orleans Pelicans that the Knicks are one of four teams he would be willing to sign with for the long term if he is dealt before Thursday’s trade deadline, according to a person with knowledge of his intentions who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.Davis, one of the league’s superstars in his seventh season in New Orleans, is the biggest name in play in advance of the deadline. He requested to be traded Jan. 28, with the Los Angeles Lakers pushing hardest to get a deal done.The Lakers, along with the Knicks, Los Angeles Clippers and Milwaukee Bucks, are Davis’s preferred trade destinations as he seeks a new home on a team that already has an established star or a path to acquiring multiple stars, according to the person, who was not permitted to discuss the plans publicly.The list of teams, though, is clearly topped by the Lakers. It was first reported Monday by The Athletic and ESPN.It is believed that the list of teams was given to the Pelicans in hopes of increasing the chances Davis is dealt this week. New Orleans has considerable incentive to delay trading Davis until closer to the draft in June, when the Boston Celtics — who are not on the list but have the biggest cache of trade assets for Davis — are eligible to trade for him.While Kyrie Irving is on the Celtics’ roster, Boston cannot trade for Davis since both he and Irving are under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. League rules only allow teams to have one such player on their rosters.ESPN has reported that the Celtics are urging the Pelicans to hold onto Davis until after the season to give them an opportunity to top the Lakers’ best offer, which is expected to feature the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma as well as future first-round draft picks.Even with the Lakers seemingly established as Davis’s most likely landing spot, the Knicks’ presence on the list provides a glimmer of hope in what has been a difficult season, especially over the past week, for Knicks fans. As The Times first reported, the Knicks traded their star forward, Kristaps Porzingis, to the Dallas Mavericks last week in a move that appears largely aimed at clearing cap space to make way for high-profile free agents this summer.Yet with the worst record in the league (10-42), and after years of dysfunction, the Knicks cannot be certain they will pique the interest of any of the notable players expected to be free agents this summer, such as Kevin Durant, Irving and Kawhi Leonard.Trading for Davis is realistically only possible if the Knicks win the draft lottery in May and are then willing to trade the No. 1 overall pick to New Orleans for the draft in June. But the Knicks will hope that Davis’s interest and the mere prospect of trading for him can make them a more attractive destination for the league’s top free agents.Though he has missed New Orleans’ last seven games with a finger injury, Davis is in the midst of another outstanding season. In 41 games, he is averaging career highs in points (29.3), rebounds (13.3) and assists (4.4) per game.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDALLAS — Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs will soon become the fourth 70-year-old coach in N.B.A. history, but he remains undecided about coaching the Spurs beyond this season.Popovich, who turns 70 on Jan. 28, is in the last season of a five-year contract extension he signed after the Spurs won their most recent championship in 2014.“I don’t know the answer,” Popovich said when asked about his plans for next season in an interview Wednesday night after the Spurs’ 105-101 victory over the Dallas Mavericks.Popovich said he and R.C. Buford, San Antonio’s longtime team president, have periodically discussed the club’s various options after this season.“He’ll coach as long as he wants to coach,” Buford said.Whether or not he stays on the Spurs’ bench, Popovich has committed to spending the next two summers coaching the men’s national team for U.S.A. Basketball, at the 2019 FIBA World Cup in China and the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo. An Air Force Academy graduate who was one of the final cuts from the 1972 American Olympic team, Popovich has served as a U.S.A. Basketball assistant — but this will be his first stint in charge after being named to replace Mike Krzyzewski of Duke University as the head coach in October 2015.Among the challenges Popovich would face next season, should he elect to keep coaching the Spurs, is a turnaround of just two weeks between the end of the World Cup on Sept. 15 and the start of N.B.A. training camps.The Spurs have recovered from their off-season trade of Kawhi Leonard, the disgruntled All-Star forward, and an 11-14 start this season — the worst record under Popovich through 25 games. A 15-6 surge since then has moved them to No. 6 in the Western Conference.San Antonio is seeking a 22nd consecutive playoff appearance in a run that began in Popovich’s first full season as head coach. He coached the final 64 games of a 20-62 campaign in 1996-97, which earned San Antonio the No. 1 pick in the 1997 draft and the right to select Tim Duncan.Led by Popovich and Duncan, who retired in 2016, San Antonio won five championships across 15 seasons. But this season featured Popovich’s first training camp without at least one of three Spurs mainstays: Duncan, Manu Ginobili, who retired at the end of last season, and Tony Parker, who left San Antonio for Charlotte in free agency over the summer.On Popovich’s birthday, he will join Bill Bertka (71), Hubie Brown (71) and Larry Brown (70) as the only head coaches in league history to work into their 70s, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. Larry Brown gave Popovich and Buford their starts in the N.B.A. by bringing them in as assistant coaches with the Spurs in 1988.One of just five N.B.A. coaches in history to win at least five championships, Popovich recently moved into third place in coaching wins, behind Don Nelson and Lenny Wilkens. The other N.B.A. coaches to win five titles are Phil Jackson (11), Red Auerbach (nine), Pat Riley (five) and John Kundla (five).Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDALLAS — Nashville goalie Pekka Rinne withstood a flurry of shots when the Dallas Stars had an extended power play in the second period, including a 5-on-3 advantage.Then came his incredible save with the game tied midway through the third before the Predators got the game-winner.Rinne stopped 40 shots, including seven when the Stars skated with an advantage for 2½ consecutive minutes, and Mikael Granlund scored on a wrist shot with 8:19 left to push the Predators to a 3-2 victory Monday night for a 2-1 lead in their best-of-seven Western Conference playoff series."He's the backbone of this franchise. He has been for a very long time," defenseman P.K. Subban said of Rinne, who made his 86th consecutive playoff start for the Predators. "He's one of our most important players, if not the most important, and he showed that again tonight."After three consecutive one-goal games, Game 4 is Wednesday night in Dallas.Granlund's tiebreaker came only about 3½ minutes after the Stars got even at 2 on a goal from Tyler Seguin off a backhand pass from Stars captain Jamie Benn following some interesting puck play behind the net.Stars fans wanted a penalty when Subban was on the back and reaching over Alexander Radulov in a battle for the puck. But play continued and seconds later Benn delivered a spot-on pass from the side of the net to Seguin in front.Right after that, Benn had a point-blank shot that Rinne pushed aside with his skate to keep the game tied."He was terrific all night," Predators coach Peter Laviolette said. "At that point, you're under fire a little bit, they start to grab the energy in the building. ... That save was big."Granlund, acquired in a trade with Minnesota in late February, got the puck from Dante Fabbro after Kyle Turris won a faceoff against Benn.Rocco Grimaldi scored in his second game in a row for the Predators, and Filip Forsberg had a perfectly timed play for a goal.Mats Zuccarello also scored for the Stars, who played their first home playoff game in three years. American Airlines Center is less than 5 miles from the Cotton Bowl Stadium where they will play the Predators outside in the Winter Classic on New Year's Day next season."Never get too high, never get too low," Stars first-year coach Jim Montgomery said. "It's 2-1, I think we've been the better team two out of three games. Keep playing like that, usually hockey gods get back on your side."Nashville led 1-0 when Grimaldi took a shot from outside the right circle and got the puck past an unobstructed Ben Bishop, who finished with 25 saves.Grimaldi didn't have a goal in the last 13 regular-season games after scoring Feb. 19 at Dallas. The center was a scratch in the opener of this series scored a goal in Game 2 while filling in for Brian Boyle, who had an appendectomy after Game 1 and is considered week-to-week.The Predators led 2-0 when Nick Bonino flicked the puck high in the air — his pass went airborne from the circle left of Rinne along the boards and over both blue lines. Forsberg was at the blue line when the puck was over his head, and delayed enough to avoid going offside before gaining control and charging in for the goal.Montgomery said the Stars looked at replays when considering a challenge, but after seeing several angles "thought it was onside clearly."NOTES: Dallas was 0 for 4 on power plays and is 1 for 13 in the series. Nashville is 0 for 8 after failing to score on its only chance with an advantage. ... Nashville is 3-0 in Dallas this season, after also winning both regular-season games there. ... Stars C Jason Dickinson was bleeding after being slammed into the boards by Colton Sissons late in the first period. It was the second time Dickinson took a big hit in this series. He went to the locker room and went through concussion testing after a collision with Boyle in Game 1. ... Like Boyle, RW Wayne Simmonds is week-to-week. Simmonds took a shot off his knee in Game 2. ... A Stars fan was removed from the area near the Nashville penalty box after the second period. ... Dirk Nowitzki was back in the building where a week ago he announced his retirement after a record 21 seasons with the NBA's Dallas Mavericks and was honored with an elaborate ceremony after his final home game. The crowd went wild when Nowitzki was shown in a suite wearing a Stars playoff T-shirt and waving a rally towel.UP NEXTGame 4 on Wednesday night in Dallas, before the series shifts back to Nashville for Game 5.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers has shown throughout his 16-year N.B.A. career that he is good at a lot of basketball-related activities, including scoring, passing, rebounding and winning. But perhaps one of his most remarkable assets — a feat, really — is his durability. He seldom misses games because of injury.But now, less than a week after turning 34, James is still on the mend from straining his left groin in a win over the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day. The timetable for his return remains uncertain.The Lakers announced on Friday, before playing the visiting Knicks, that James would not make a coming trip with the team for back-to-back games against the Minnesota Timberwolves on Sunday and the Dallas Mavericks on Monday. The Lakers’ next game after that is on Wednesday against the Detroit Pistons at Staples Center.The team said in its statement that James was making “progress with his recovery” as he received daily treatment from the team’s medical staff and that he would be re-evaluated in one week.Entering Friday, the Lakers had lost three of the four games they had played without James, dropping them to eighth place in the Western Conference standings with a 21-17 record — a precarious position for a team with playoff hopes. The Sacramento Kings were two games back in ninth place.James’s absence has been compounded by the loss of Rajon Rondo, a veteran point guard who injured a ligament in his right ring finger against the Warriors and could miss three to four more weeks after undergoing surgery. Rondo had already missed 17 games this season because of a fractured bone in the same hand.Their absences have meant an increased reliance on the team’s young core, which includes Brandon Ingram, Kyle Kuzma and Lonzo Ball. Those players have delivered at times, but not consistently enough to manufacture many wins.As for James, he had been playing some of the finest basketball of his career, averaging 27.3 points, 8.3 rebounds and 7.1 assists while shooting 51.8 percent from the field and 35.6 percent from 3-point range. He appeared in each of the Lakers’ first 34 games and had not missed a game since April 12, 2017, back when he was employed by the Cleveland Cavaliers. That gave him a streak of 156 consecutive games played, including in the postseason.“I take a lot of pride in it,” James said of his sturdiness after injuring his groin. “That’s why it pissed me off not to be able to go back into the game. It’s more than anything being available to my teammates, being available to my coaching staff. That’s something I take more personal than anything. Hopefully it’s not a long thing.”The Lakers initially listed James as day-to-day after he underwent a magnetic resonance imaging exam. But Coach Luke Walton has said that the team will be cautious with James, who signed a four-year, $154 million deal in July.For much of his career, James has been able to ward off the corrosive effects of his profession — the daily wear and tear, the punishment from defenders. If nothing else, the last couple of weeks have revealed him to be at least semi-mortal, after all — and the Lakers are taking no chances, hoping they can remain afloat until he returns.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSAN ANTONIO — Dirk Nowitzki said goodbye to the NBA the same way he came into the league, smoothly draining a jumper over a defender to punctuate a passionate performance.It was only fitting that Nowitzki's final shot came against the San Antonio Spurs, a team he terrorized in the regular season and postseason. This time, however, the tears it stirred were tears of joy.LaMarcus Aldridge had 34 points and 16 rebounds and the Spurs beat the Dallas Mavericks 105-94 Wednesday night in Nowitzki's final game."Everybody, players, fans, coaches and staff got to witness history watching him play his last game," San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich said. "He played a fine game, which was great. It's not surprising."Nowitzki finished with 20 points and 10 rebounds in the finale of his storied 21-season career — all with the Mavericks. Nowitzki announced he was retiring Tuesday night following Dallas' final home game of the season.Wednesday's sell-out crowd cheered wildly each time Nowitzki entered the game or touched the ball and let out a collective groan when he missed a shot. He was serenaded with chants of "MVP!" throughout the game by the crowd filled with patrons wearing his No. 41 jersey."It was fantastic again tonight," Nowitzki said. "Felt almost like a home game, honestly."The Spurs couldn't afford any sentimentality with playoff positioning at stake, and they didn't show any. San Antonio raced to a double-figure lead and led by as many as 22 points.The Spurs finished seventh in the Western Conference as a result of Oklahoma City's 127-116 victory over Milwaukee. They will face the No. 2 seed, either Denver or Houston, in the opening round of the playoffs.The regular-season finale turned out to be a win for everyone. San Antonio won, Nowitzki led the Mavericks in scoring and Popovich, the Spurs and San Antonio's fans got to say goodbye to the future Hall of Famer."He was having a lot of fun tonight, I was really happy for him," Popovich said.It was appropriate that Nowitzki's final game came against the Spurs, who he has had many memorable battles against. Perhaps the most memorable was the 2006 Western Conference finals against San Antonio. After the Spurs battled back from a 3-1 series deficit and a 20-point lead in Game 7, Manu Ginobili fouled Nowitzki on a layup with 21.6 seconds remaining. Nowitzki made the free throw to forge a tie and the Mavs went on to win in overtime on the way to the franchise's first NBA Finals appearance."If it's not at home, this kind of works perfect," Nowitzki said of San Antonio. "This team was always sort of the big brother. They were beating us and then we kind of found a way to get through them in '06. To me, probably still one of the best playoff series I've been a part of and probably some of the best basketball in that series that I've ever played in my life."Nowitzki was able to turn back the clock, shooting 8 for 21 in 32 minutes, including going 2 for 6 on 3-pointers. His final shot was a 20-footer over Spurs rookie Drew Eubanks with 49.7 seconds remaining.Dallas coach Rick Carlisle subbed Nowitzki following the shot, leading to an ovation of cheers and chants of "Dirk" and "MVP.""It's cool playing against Dirk tonight," Spurs guard DeMar DeRozan said. "Seeing him out there and playing against one of the greatest of all time for the last time, it was cool. Hopefully, I got a good photo op."Derozan finished with 19 points and Derrick White added 14 for the Spurs, who finished with a 49-34 record.Justin Jackson and Courtney Lee added 14 points each for Dallas, which was without Rookie of the Year candidate Luka Doncic.TIP-INSMavericks: Nowitzki averaged 15.3 minutes and started 20 games this season, the lowest numbers of his career. He started 24 games as a rookie while playing 20.4 minutes. ... Nowitzki has played 38 games in San Antonio, tied for the third-highest total of any player. Utah legends Karl Malone and John Stockton each played 46 games in San Antonio. Denver's Alex English played 39, and Houston's Hakeem Olajuwon played 38. ... Doncic missed three of Dallas' final four games due to a thigh injury. He missed back-to-back games against Memphis with a bruised right thigh, played 32 minutes against Phoenix, and missed the team's finale with a bruised left thigh.Spurs: Bryn Forbes finished with 10 points in 26 minutes. . San Antonio only had four players in double figures.THANK YOU, DIRKThe Spurs played a 1 ½-minute tribute video in honor of Nowitzki, highlighting his 21 seasons in the NBA.Nowitzki looked up to watch the video on the big screen at the AT&T Center, but had to turn away as he began to cry."The first 20, 30 seconds, I was kind of holding it (in)," Nowitzki said. "I was like, 'That's sweet,' and then it just kind of all came out. I'm not sure why. Not only did they show highlights from my career, but they showed highlights from me beating up on the Spurs, which was even more incredible."UP NEXTMavericks: The offseason.Spurs: First round of the Western Conference playoffs.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperCHARLOTTE, N.C. — After two weeks of Anthony Davis’s trade request dominating conversation around the N.B.A., Commissioner Adam Silver on Saturday sounded sanguine about any possible negative effects it was having on the league.“Some of the greatest players in the history of this league have demanded trades at various points of their contracts,” he said at his annual All-Star weekend address. He went on to say that there was “very little” he could do to completely stop players from trying to force trades.Davis was fined $50,000 for the public trade request made by his agent, Rich Paul. Silver said it was healthy for players and their agents to have ongoing conversations with their teams about future intentions, but that he preferred that such conversations happen behind closed doors. As for the frenzy of news media attention surrounding Davis and his possible destination this summer, Silver said the “public spectacle” wasn’t the type of media interest the league wanted.“We certainly are becoming a 52-week-a-year sport, and it’s largely the result of tremendous interest in these players,” he said. “I think we could do a better job as a league in avoiding those situations where they get to the point where players are maybe demanding they be traded or, worst-case scenario, saying, ‘I’m not going to honor my contract.’”[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]Silver has frequently stated a desire to improve the N.B.A.’s competitive balance. Asked whether small-market teams could compete with large-market franchises, Silver largely disputed the premise without even citing the fact that the Milwaukee Bucks, a small-market club, currently have the best winning percentage in the league.He took the opposite approach.“I’m not even sure where the line is anymore on big markets,” he said, pointing out that the Los Angeles Lakers, New York Knicks and Chicago Bulls — teams that play in major cities — have struggled on the court in recent years.Silver also said it was too early to judge whether reforms to the draft lottery, intended to reduce the incentive to tank in pursuit of a high draft pick, were having the intended effect. Four teams this year are on pace to win fewer than 20 games, but Silver said there is also an unusually large number still in contention for a playoff berth.“I personally don’t think it is a winning strategy over the long term, losing for multiple years,” said Silver. He also said that choosing to be uncompetitive for an extended period of time would most likely have a “corrosive’’ effect on any team that took that approach.Taken together, Silver’s responses to questions suggested that he was relatively happy with the state of the N.B.A. and believed that the league’s problems could be solved through tweaks to the system, not wholesale changes.Silver opened the news conference by addressing House Bill 2, the law passed in North Carolina in 2016 that invalidated local government ordinances establishing anti-discrimination protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people and required people in publicly owned buildings to use restrooms that corresponded with the genders listed on their birth certificates. In response to the law, the N.B.A. took the All-Star Game, originally scheduled to be played in Charlotte in 2017, away from the city.He said it was the view of the league office that the law discriminated against the LGBTQ community, and subsequently the N.B.A. made the decision that it was “inconsistent with the values of this league to play the All-Star Game here under those circumstances.” The N.B.A. decided to return after the law was partially repealed.Asked about efforts to improve the culture of the Dallas Mavericks, where a league investigation found numerous instances of sexual harassment and improper conduct among employees, Silver offered few specifics but said there was a “complete sea change in culture on the business side” of the organization.Earlier Saturday, the N.B.A., in partnership with the International Basketball Federation, announced the formation of the Basketball Africa League, a 12-team professional league made up of clubs from across Africa. The league will begin play in 2020, the first time that the N.B.A. will be involved in the operation of a league outside of North America.Many details, including which clubs from which countries will be part of the league, have yet to be finalized, but Silver did say that former President Barack Obama would be involved in the league in an unspecified capacity.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDALLAS — Dirk Nowitzki’s final N.B.A. game will take place in the same city — San Antonio — where he played what he considers the most important game of his life as well as what many rank as the best game of his career.Wednesday’s date with the San Antonio Spurs is suddenly poised to be recorded as the final outing of Nowitzki’s 21 seasons with the Dallas Mavericks — thanks to the retirement announcement he sprang on the American Airlines Center crowd after Dallas’s 120-109 victory Tuesday night over the Phoenix Suns.After scoring a season-high 30 points, albeit on 31 shot attempts, Nowitzki punctuated a postgame ceremony arranged to honor his long and decorated career by announcing that he is indeed retiring from the sport.“As you guys might expect, this is my last home game,” Nowitzki told the fans, finally addressing his future after trying to dodge questions on that topic all season in a futile attempt to avoid a so-called farewell tour.The Mavericks’ regular-season finale on the Spurs’ floor thus provides Nowitzki with a serendipitous opportunity to go out where he broke in. It was a 33-point, 14-rebound performance in the 1998 Nike Hoop Summit Game in San Antonio as a 19-year-old that, in Nowitzki’s words, “literally changed my life,” convincing Dallas that it had to do anything it could to draft the little-known German.Nowitzki, 40, went on to overcome a string of playoff disappointments and lead the Mavericks to the only championship in franchise history in 2011. His 21 consecutive seasons with one team is an N.B.A. record — and the 37 points and 15 rebounds he delivered against the five-time champion Tim Duncan in Game 7 of the Western Conference finals in San Antonio in 2006 is widely regarded as his most complete single-game performance.As the game’s sixth career leading scorer with 31,540 points, Nowitzki is often described as the best European import in N.B.A. history and credited with ushering in the modern era of power forward play in which players of all sizes were not only encouraged but expected to shoot proficiently from long range.“He’s our Roger Staubach,” said the longtime Mavericks General Manager Donnie Nelson, who did the loudest lobbying to persuade his father Don, then the Mavericks’ coach and general manager, to make any maneuvers necessary to select Nowitzki in the 1998 draft.Mark Cuban, the team’s owner, announced recently that the reluctant Nowitzki was getting an ornate send-off against the Suns “whether he wants it or not.” The Mavericks duly arranged for five of Nowitzki’s favorite players growing up — Charles Barkley, Scottie Pippen, Shawn Kemp, Detlef Schrempf and even Larry Bird — to fly in, stay out of public view during the game and then emerge to take part in the ceremony.The game itself, predictably, was also all about Nowitzki, with teammates, particularly the league’s rookie of the year favorite, Luka Doncic, feeding him incessantly as fans bayed at him to shoot at every opportunity.Before tipoff, Nowitzki jokingly asked a team staffer to look up how many shots Kobe Bryant took on the way to scoring 60 points in Bryant’s farewell game in April 2016. Informed that Bryant hoisted 50 shots that night, Nowitzki conceded that he very likely wouldn’t reach that territory, but promised to “let it fly.” He wound up taking Dallas’s first eight shots, scored 19 points in the first half and finished with 30 points on 11-for-31 shooting to match what his longtime rival Dwyane Wade of the Miami Heat managed in Wade’s final home game before retirement Tuesday night.The Suns’ Jamal Crawford, at 39, remarkably countered with 51 points, making Crawford the first player in league history to crack the 50-point mark with four different teams. The spotlight, though, never left Nowitzki, who revealed at a news conference after the game that he had decided in recent days that his surgically repaired left foot could not sustain a 22nd season.“I would love to be there for K.P. and Luka and all these young guys and have fun with them and mentor them as much as I can,” Nowitzki said, referring to Dallas’s embryonic star duo of Kristaps Porzingis and Doncic. “But it just doesn’t make any sense anymore physically. I think mentally I could still do it — I can always push myself to work out hard — but physically the foot is just not quite there.”Said Doncic, whose 21 points, 16 rebounds and 11 assists were overshadowed, like Crawford’s scoring outburst, by the Nowitzki party, “I was emotional, and the whole team was emotional, so imagine him.”Nowitzki acknowledged that he has been increasingly weepy over the past week, as the end of the regular season for the lottery-bound Mavericks — and a decision he could no longer delay — drew near. But he was openly giddy when he spoke of the former stars who shared in Tuesday’s festivities, proclaiming it an “amazing” evening.“They did this right,” he said.Asked if he was bothered at all that one more road game remained on Dallas’s schedule, as opposed to closing out the regular season at home, Nowitzki scoffed at the idea that the league’s schedule-makers had wronged him.“I’m totally fine with it,” he said. “The N.B.A. can’t keep up with the plans of a million players. They didn’t know if I was going to retire this season, last season or whatever.”There was likewise no protest from Holger Geschwindner, Nowitzki’s longtime shooting coach and the former captain of West Germany’s 1972 Olympic team. Geschwindner is known in Mavericks circles for being far harder to please than his star pupil, but he embraced the storybook nature of Nowitzki’s returning to the scene of his breakthrough performance at the Hoop Summit by traveling to South Texas one last time.“I think it’s great,” Geschwindner said. “That’s where it all started.”An earlier version of this article incorrectly described Dwyane Wade’s game Tuesday night. It was his final home game in Miami before retirement, not his final game.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperMajor League Baseball and the Chicago Cubs moved to distance themselves from one of their own Tuesday, after the news outlet Splinter published a cache of racist emails sent and received by Joe Ricketts, the billionaire whose family owns the Chicago Cubs and Wrigley Field.Many of the published emails, sent between 2009 to 2013, focused on a fear of Muslims and contained conspiracy theories about former President Barack Obama. The false assertion that Obama, who identifies as Protestant, was Muslim and born outside the United States were prevalent in right-wing politics during his presidency.In one email, Ricketts wrote to somebody identified only as S.V. that “Christians and Jews can have a mutual respect for each other to create a civil society,” but “Islam cannot do that.” He went on to write that, “we cannot ever let Islam become a large part of our society,” and that “Muslims are naturally my (our) enemy.”Major League Baseball released a statement condemning the emails but seemingly tried to absolve Ricketts of some responsibility.“While many of the emails were not written by Mr. Ricketts, the content is extremely offensive and completely at odds with the values and principles of Major League Baseball,” the statement said.In a statement on his website, Ricketts apologized for his emails. “I deeply regret and apologize for some of the exchanges I had in my emails,” he wrote. “Sometimes I received emails that I should have condemned. Other times I’ve said things that don’t reflect my value system. I strongly believe that bigoted ideas are wrong.”Tom Ricketts, chairman of the Cubs, denounced his father’s emails in a statement and tried to distance the Cubs from him.“We are aware of the racially insensitive emails in my father’s account that were published by an online media outlet,” the statement read. “Let me be clear: The language and views expressed in those emails have no place in our society.”Tom Ricketts continued: “My father is not involved with the operation of the Chicago Cubs in any way.”The Cubs are owned through a trust the Ricketts family controls.Joe Ricketts, who earned his fortune as the founder and chairman of brokerage TD Ameritrade, and his wife Marlene, sold $403 million of stock to finance the purchase.Ricketts’s four children run the Cubs day to day. Tom Ricketts is the chairman; on the board of directors are Pete Ricketts, the Republican governor of Nebraska; Todd Ricketts, finance chairman of the Republican National Committee; and Laura Ricketts, who was a major bundler for the presidential campaigns of Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.The Ricketts family purchased a 95 percent stake in the Cubs and Wrigley Field from the Tribune Company in 2009.In other sports leagues, offensive behavior has led to owners selling their franchises. Donald Sterling was forced to sell the Los Angeles Clippers of the N.B.A. after a tape of him making racist comments became public. Sterling was banned from the league for life.Jerry Richardson, the owner of the N.F.L.’s Carolina Panthers, announced he would sell his team shortly after a report came out that revealed he had been accused of sexually harassing employees and making racist comments.In September, the N.B.A. fined Mark Cuban, the owner of the Dallas Mavericks, for the way he and team officials handled sexual harassment complaints.For Joe Ricketts, this is not the first time his political activities have harmed the Cubs. He is a major funder of conservative causes and gave $1 million to a political action committee supporting Donald Trump during his presidential campaign.In 2012, The New York Times reported that Joe Ricketts was considering spending $10 million on a campaign that would attack Obama’s connection to Reverend Jeremiah Wright, a former spiritual adviser who Obama denounced during the 2008 presidential campaign. At the same time, the Cubs were asking Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel for $300 million in public money, as part of a $500 million renovation of Wrigley Field and the surrounding area.Emanuel, who served in the White House as Obama’s chief of staff, was reportedly “livid” over the proposed campaign, and stopped talking to Cubs officials about the renovation shortly thereafter. The Ricketts family ultimately financed the renovations privately. Those renovations are ongoing.In a statement Tuesday, Emanuel condemned the emails. “Joe Ricketts once said that I do not share his values. Truer words were never spoken,” he said. “The ignorance and intolerance he has espoused are not welcome in Chicago. I am proud not to share his bigoted opinions. Hate has no home in Chicago.”Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDENVER — There was a time not long ago that basketball success in the Rocky Mountains was measured by the Denver Nuggets’ ability to persuade a free agent of Dwyane Wade’s stature to meet team brass in New York and let the Nuggets offer him millions.In the summer of 2016, only one season into the career of Nikola Jokic and with few hints to that point that the Nuggets already had a cornerstone player, just getting the opportunity to pitch Wade face-to-face was widely hailed as a triumph for this franchise.What went unrevealed that off-season was that Denver also made a futile run at Wade’s longtime rival, Dirk Nowitzki of the Dallas Mavericks. Nowitzki had no interest in even entertaining the idea of leaving the only team he had ever known, but that was the Nuggets in the embryonic stages of Jokic’s development — straining to persuade some of the game’s biggest names to take them seriously.Three years later, Jokic is a certifiable All-Star and his team of upstarts from the Mile High City found an entertaining way on Tuesday night to win some leaguewide notice. Seemingly headed for a second consecutive playoff defeat to the San Antonio Spurs on its home floor, Denver rode a remarkable fourth-quarter resurrection from the third-year guard Jamal Murray to rally to a 114-105 victory over the Spurs that did far more than even this Western Conference first-round series at one game apiece.“Definitely saved the season,” Paul Millsap, Denver’s veteran forward, said in a quiet moment at his locker. “To go down, 0-2, against the San Antonio Spurs, going into their place, it’s a massacre waiting to happen.”Millsap’s candor conveyed a good chunk of the significance attached to this win, but not all of it. Murray’s eruption for 21 of his 24 points in the final period — on 8-for-9 shooting after he stood at 0-for-8 through three quarters — not only gave the hosts hope of making this an actual series but also spared them some real embarrassment and introspection.After five consecutive seasons out of the playoffs, Denver unexpectedly won 54 games this season to vault to No. 2 in the West. The Nuggets were nonetheless a trendy pick to suffer a first-round upset against the San Antonio masters of execution and their coaching maestro, Gregg Popovich, which would naturally render Denver’s regular-season accomplishments rather hollow.“Frauds” was the popular word being tossed around on N.B.A. Twitter after the Nuggets fell behind by 19 points — twice — in a must-win game. Booing broke out at Pepsi Center on multiple occasions in just Denver’s second home playoff game since 2013, with both Jokic and Nuggets Coach Michael Malone telling reporters afterward that the fans were too hard on Will Barton when they hissed at his 1-for-10 shooting.“When they’re going through a tough time, they could use some love,” Malone said of his players, who comprise the league’s youngest playoff roster.Fortunately for Barton and the rest of the Nuggets, it was all love in the fourth quarter, thanks largely to Murray, who shot 8-for-24 in Game 1 — including a wide-open elbow jumper he clanked in crunchtime that clearly haunted the Canadian guard well into Game 2.During one key timeout, Malone reminded his players “what the Clippers did” Monday night, when they rallied out of a 31-point deficit in the second half at Golden State to register the largest playoff comeback in N.B.A. history. The inspiration finally hit Murray in the fourth when, without warning, he drained his first eight shots.In support of Murray, Jokic rang up 21 points, 13 rebounds and 8 assists in a bid for a second consecutive triple-double, which would suggest that the Serbian big man is coping quite well with his first turn under a playoff microscope. Gary Harris and Millsap added 23 and 20 points, to give Denver four starters in the 20s.“We gave up 38 points in the fourth quarter,” said a seething Popovich. “End of story.”The collapse was even worse than Popovich realized. The Spurs actually allowed 39 points in the quarter — and San Antonio’s All-Star forward, LaMarcus Aldridge, could be subjected to some league discipline that affects his status for Thursday night’s Game 3 judging by video footage in circulation that appears to show Aldridge landing a below-the-belt shot on Harris.Not that the Nuggets, after days of hearing incessantly about how inexperienced they are, can feel any sort of comfort yet. They’ve lost 13 consecutive games in San Antonio dating to 2012. Denver is also 0-11, as a franchise, in best-of-seven series after losing Game 1.“I think the cynicism is fair,” Nuggets General Manager Tim Connelly said after the victory, acknowledging that he was well aware of the noise about his team.Yet Connelly pointed out that as fluky as skeptics might find the Nuggets’ No. 2 seed, team officials set three fairly lofty goals before the season started. Then they watched this group, largely assembled through Denver’s own shrewd drafting and trading, reach them all.End the playoff drought? Check.Win the Northwest Division? Check.Secure a top-four seed and home-court advantage in the first round of the postseason?Check.The next step was making sure they didn’t spoil all that by falling into an 0-2 hole to San Antonio with two home defeats, which is the sort of deficit only four teams in league history have managed to erase. Yet one of the more refreshing things about this team is that it doesn’t try to pretend that its collective lack of postseason experience is merely a topic harped on by the news media.The Nuggets have only three players (Millsap, Barton and Mason Plumlee) who appeared in a playoff game before Game 1 of this series, and they acknowledge it’s an obstacle, especially against a team that can carry out a game plan like the Spurs.“Yes, playoff basketball is everything everybody says it is,” Harris told me Monday, on the eve of Game 2.Breakthrough performances from Murray and Jokic and big comebacks, as such, must be celebrated — even at this early stage of Round 1.So in the middle of the victorious locker room, swept up in what the novices, er, the Nuggets had just achieved, Malone was duly pulled into a robust group hug by their rarely seen owner, Stan Kroenke, and Kroenke’s son Josh, the team’s president and governor.“It was fun,” Connelly said, “to watch some young guys grow up tonight.”Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt Stevens and Kevin DraperThe Utah Jazz permanently banned a fan who they said aggressively taunted Russell Westbrook, one of the N.B.A.’s premier players, during a game Monday night in an incident that has prompted discussions about fan racism and player security.Westbrook, the star guard of the Oklahoma City Thunder, said the fan directed “disrespectful” and “racial” comments toward him. “A young man and his wife in the stands told me to get down on my knees ‘like you used to,’ ” Westbrook said.In a video posted on Twitter by a reporter for The Deseret News, Westbrook, who is black, can be seen using expletives to say that he will beat up the fan, who appears to be white, and extends the threat to include the man’s wife. The video is about 30 seconds long and does not show the full encounter or what prompted Westbrook, a guard for the visiting Oklahoma City Thunder, to react to the fan.After the game, Westbrook told reporters that the man had said “disrespectful things” about him and his family that he thought were “racial” and suggested that the video posted online lacked important context.He acknowledged that he had threatened to beat up the fan’s wife but said he had “never put his hand on a woman” and “never will.” He also stood by his actions, saying, “If I had to do it over again, I would say the same exact thing.”On Tuesday afternoon, the N.B.A. announced that it had fined Westbrook $25,000 “for directing profanity and threatening language to a fan.” The announcement came shortly after the Jazz, in a statement, said the fan would be permanently banned from all events at Vivint Smart Home Arena because of “excessive and derogatory verbal abuse directed at a player.” The team said it had conducted an investigation that included reviews of video and eyewitness accounts.The confrontation between Westbrook and the Jazz fan — who has presented a starkly different description of the episode — is the latest in a series of incidents that spotlight how fans treat athletes and the sometimes explosive consequences that can result, issues that both Westbrook and the N.B.A. have frequently been at the center of.“There’s no protection for the players,” Westbrook said in his postgame comments, which were transcribed by a reporter for The Salt Lake Tribune and later provided to The New York Times by the Thunder, who otherwise didn’t comment on the incident. “I think there are a lot of great fans who like to come to the game and enjoy the game. And then there are people that come to the game to say disrespectful things about me, my family.”Westbrook’s teammates backed his account of the interaction. Raymond Felton told reporters that he had overheard the comments made by the fan and said they were “totally disrespectful.” Patrick Patterson appeared to confirm Westbrook’s account of events on Twitter, and wrote that “fans are protected in every way possible but not us.”Multiple news outlets identified the Jazz fan as Shane Keisel. Keisel told ESPN that he did not swear at Westbrook or otherwise say anything inappropriate, and that he believed they were having fun. In an interview with local television station KSL, Keisel said Westbrook had been using profanity and “acting a fool,” which fans responded to by heckling him.Keisel said he saw Westbrook’s knees wrapped in towels, so he told him to “sit down and ice your knees, bro.” Westbrook responded that the wraps were for heat, Keisel said, adding that he then told Westbrook, “Well, you’re going to need it.” Keiser said the woman sitting next to him, who ESPN identified as his wife, Jennifer Huff, did not say anything to Westbrook and had her hands in her lap.Attempts to reach Keisel on Tuesday were unsuccessful.Keisel was sitting in the third row on the baseline, near the Thunder bench. Unlike in most other sports, in basketball fans can sit just a few feet away from players. This can lead to good-natured and spirited exchanges — like the back-and-forth heckling between Spike Lee and Reggie Miller in the 1990s — but also to large problems.Most infamous is what is known as The Malice at the Palace in 2004. After a brawl between the Indiana Pacers and Detroit Pistons at The Palace of Auburn Hills in Detroit, a fan threw a drink at Ron Artest, a Pacers forward at the time who has since changed his name to Metta World Peace. Artest charged into the stands, followed closely by teammate Stephen Jackson, and threw a punch at a fan. Artest was suspended for 86 games, and five players eventually pleaded no contest to misdemeanor assault charges.Since the incident, the N.B.A. has taken numerous steps to prevent violence, especially between players and fans. Players are now automatically suspended if they leave the bench during an on-court altercation, and fans whose unacceptable conduct is overheard by or reported to security are issued cards warning them that they can be ejected from the arena.In a statement after the game, the Jazz said arena security issued several warning cards to fans during the game.Westbrook has had a number of run-ins with fans in the past, including in Salt Lake City. During last year’s playoffs, Westbrook twice got into it with fans while leaving the court. The first time he stepped toward and yelled at a fan that was leaning over the railing talking to him; the second time Westbrook swiped at a phone that a fan had pushed toward his face.“Here in Utah, a lot of disrespectful, vulgar things are said to the players here with these fans,” Westbrook said after that game. Afterward, Jazz officials said that their arena security was adequate, and updated their in-arena video message about fan behavior.Last month in Denver, a child sitting in the front row gave Westbrook a small shove as he landed out of bounds. Westbrook bent over and calmly spoke to a man nearby and the child, patting him on the knee and shaking his hand before returning to the game. “I told his dad, ‘Be careful, man. You can’t have your son just hitting random people,’ ” Westbrook said after that game.Westbrook also pushed a fan who confronted him on the court after a game in Denver last year, and was fined $25,000 for shouting a vulgarity at a Dallas Mavericks fan in 2016.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Harvey AratonThe crush of bodies surrounding Dwyane Wade as he left an N.B.A. court for the last time as an active player had the effect of a small tidal wave, surging through the jammed Barclays Center tunnel, head-on into a pack of waiting well-wishers.At the rear of the crowd stood Pat Riley, who brought Wade to Miami 16 years ago, nurtured him to stardom, celebrated three championships with him, let him get away in 2016 over a contract dispute and less than two years later welcomed him home with open arms.“Whoa,” Riley said, hands on the shoulders of his wife, Chris, steadying her against the swell of humanity.Now here, finally, came Wade, man of the hour. Wade and Riley, both standing 6 feet 4 inches, made eye contact. Riley raised his right arm forward. Wade reached above the security detail, clasping his hand with the team president’s. The linchpins of the Miami Heat franchise pulled together for a heartfelt embrace.“One more,” Riley told Wade. “I’ve got a max contract for you.”Wade snickered. Riley chortled. It was the self-mocking joke Riley could tell and they both could enjoy after Wade, having gone home again following unfulfilling detours to Chicago and Cleveland, was given the send-off he deserved.After being traded back to Miami by the Cavaliers early last year, Wade talked himself into a last dance for the 2018-19 season, many nights of which he played younger than his well-worn 37 years. Properly feted before Miami’s home schedule closeout on Tuesday night, he scored 30 points in a victory over Philadelphia and topped it off with a playful triple double (25 points, 11 rebounds, 10 assists) as the Heat’s season ended 24 hours later with a 113-94 defeat to the playoff-bound Nets.“I can retire and be happy about my career,” Wade would say, sporting a gold and black jacket in the interview room, on his way out to dance the night away with a guest list that included his N.B.A. “brotherhood” — LeBron James, Carmelo Anthony and Chris Paul.However dapper at 74, with a fine head of combed-back gray hair, Riley was never part of that social scene, just the patriarch who landed Wade with the fifth pick of the 2003 draft, considered at the time to be a consolation prize after James, Darko Milicic, Anthony and Chris Bosh were the first four players chosen.But Wade was more special than anyone imagined during his time at Marquette, a world-class gymnast in basketball footwear, with the uncommon calm of a cocksure gunslinger.When Wade had moved on into the corridor leading to the locker room, I told Riley about a 2005 playoff night in Auburn Hills, Mich., when Wade, as a second-year player, was making life quite difficult for the defending champion, defensively stout Detroit Pistons in the Eastern Conference finals.Taking a halftime stroll, I ran into Chuck Daly, who as the Pistons coach in the late 1980s had devised a defense specifically for Michael Jordan — the famous Jordan Rules.“I’ll tell you what, he’s got some Jordan in him,” Daly said, dragging on a cigarette, when I asked what he thought of the young Wade. “He’s got all the things you can’t teach.”Riley nodded. “Chuck was right,” he said.Wade had other elite qualities besides the balletic ability to score from angles we couldn’t be sure actually existed. He could pass like a point guard when his team needed an assist. He was a solid team defender. He retires as the most productive shot-blocking guard in N.B.A. history, having last month nudged past Jordan.Flashy as he was, Wade had some Tim Duncan in him, too. Until James arrived with Bosh in the summer of 2010, he was unquestionably the franchise star without having to broadcast it to the world, and his door was open to anyone who could give him a better chance to win.Wade embraced Riley’s 2004 acquisition of Shaquille O’Neal when Kobe Bryant wanted no part of the big fella in Los Angeles. He recruited James while fully aware of how the self-proclaimed King was great at basketball, as well as sucking the oxygen out of an organization.When James departed after two titles and four consecutive runs to the finals, Riley called it the most devastating blow of his time in Miami, but Wade insisted there were no hard feelings. It was business. He was still being paid to play basketball, live in Miami. How could life not be good?Yet he wasn’t immune to wounded pride when Riley refused to give him a third contract year in 2016, citing Wade’s balky knees and declining stats. Wade left, reluctantly, one more divorce in a league of ever-transient stars.There’s nothing wrong, nothing at all, with players maximizing free agency, leveraging their way to whichever location suits them at a certain career stage. James of course has been the pied piper of the paradigm. Kevin Durant is reportedly poised to again follow his lead, right out of Golden State.But James’s presence in Brooklyn on Wednesday night, a convenient excuse to avoiding dealing with Magic Johnson’s sudden, stunning disappearance from the Lakers’ front office, was a reminder that the more moves a player makes, the better the odds he might eventually outmaneuver himself.Meanwhile, Dirk Nowitzki, like Wade, was also demonstrating the currency in continuity, finishing a 21-year run Wednesday night with the Dallas Mavericks to widespread acclaim. Manu Ginobili and Duncan were similarly deified for staying the course in San Antonio. Wade will remain the toast of South Florida.In the Miami locker room, a few young Heat players lined up for Wade to sign their jerseys and sneakers. The No. 3 jersey he wore was given to Anthony, a shooter without a squad after parting ways with Paul’s Houston Rockets this season after a mere 10 games.Anthony did manage to scoop up a ball rolling out of bounds in the fourth quarter by the corner front row from where he, Paul and James were cheering on Wade. He took one dribble and, thankfully, resisted the temptation.“I didn’t get a chance to play against Melo this season and exchange jerseys,” said Wade, explaining the gesture. “He was the missing piece.”Throughout his career, wherever he lit up the scoreboard, Anthony seemed to miss the point, unwilling to — as former President Barack Obama said of Wade in a video tribute — “sometimes sacrifice your ego in pursuit of a title.”If Anthony never plays again in the N.B.A., is there a moral to their divergent stories? Only if the most graceful departure possible is a priority, part of the plan. It apparently was for Wade. He left with a self-assured smile and, while indicating he would probably need therapy to deal with the time on his hands, he ruled out a potential return.“I think everybody knows this is for real,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDwyane Wade scored 30 points in a tribute-filled final home game on Tuesday, but despite a 122-99 victory over Philadelphia, the Miami Heat were eliminated from playoff contention.Wade’s career will end Wednesday in Brooklyn. He checked out with 1:02 left, embracing teammates and his son, Zaire.Wade scored the first basket of the game on a dunk, Philadelphia scored the next eight — and it was all Miami the rest of the way.In the final minutes, Wade swished a 3-pointer and banked in two more en route to 14 points in the final quarter.MAVERICKS 120, SUNS 109 Dirk Nowitzki scored a season-high 30 points in what was most likely the final home game of the 40-year-old’s 21st season.The 14-time All-Star scored the team’s first 10 points and passed his previous season high of 21 on a 3-pointer early in the third quarter. The Mavericks end their season Wednesday in San Antonio.Jamal Crawford scored 51 points for Phoenix (19-63), which had by far the worst record in the Western Conference.Fans stood during warm-ups, recording Nowitzki in the layup line on their phones. The 7-foot German obliged with a dunk. Then he had another dunk in the game — his second of the season — in the second half.Nowitzki fought back tears during a tribute video in between the first and second quarters.KNICKS 96, BULLS 86 Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points, Mitchell Robinson added eight points and 17 rebounds and the Knicks escaped the possibility of finishing with the worst record in franchise history.With one game remaining, against Detroit, the Knicks (17-64) can only tie the mark of the 2014-15 team. They already secured the N.B.A.’s worst record and a draft position no worse than fifth.The Bulls, meanwhile, lost for the 32nd time at United Center this season, a franchise record.PISTONS 100, GRIZZLIES 93 Andre Drummond had 20 points and 17 rebounds, as host Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to cling to a playoff spot.Detroit can clinch a bid Wednesday night at New York.HORNETS 124, CAVALIERS 97 Kemba Walker scored 23 points and visiting Charlotte kept its playoff push alive. The Hornets (39-42) must now beat Orlando at home on Wednesday and hope the Pistons (39-42) lose in New York.WARRIORS 112, PELICANS 103 DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds for visiting Golden State, which took Stephen Curry out of the game after nine minutes with a mild foot sprain.The Warriors said Curry was held out as a precaution, having already had clinched the top playoff seed in the Western Conference. They also played without Kevin Durant and Klay Thompson.The game also likely marked the end of the Anthony Davis era in New Orleans. The disgruntled All-Star, who missed his seventh straight game with what the team has officially listed as back spasms, wore a T-shirt that said, “That’s All Folks.”CELTICS 116, WIZARDS 110 Bradley Beal 16 points, five rebounds and four assists — all before halftime — to become the first player in Washington Wizards franchise history to average at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists for a season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAs the crowd filed out of the Barclays Center in May 2015, there was reason for hope. Though the Nets had just been eliminated by the Atlanta Hawks in the first round of the playoffs, they had overachieved and shown some promise for the future. And Phil Jackson had become the Knicks president the year before, bringing his triangle offense and a coaching résumé that included 11 N.B.A. titles to Manhattan.Little did New York fans know that it would be four dreadful years before playoff basketball would return to the city. It finally will on Thursday night, when the Nets host the Philadelphia 76ers in a series tied at one all.While there has been no playoff basketball in the city in the interim, much has happened in those four years. And for Knicks and Nets fans, not much of it has been good.May 1, 2015 The eighth-seeded Nets fall to the top-seeded Hawks, 111-87. But they take two games in the series, raising optimism. “We were able to secure a playoff spot,” Coach Lionel Hollins says. “Some people will say, ‘Hey, we didn’t deserve it.’ That’s their problem.”June 25 After putting up a 17-65 record, the worst in franchise history and the league’s second worst in 2015, the Knicks have bad luck in the draft lottery, ending up at the No. 4 spot. Nevertheless, their selection, Kristaps Porzingis of Latvia, will pay off, quickly becoming a star and a fan favorite.Oct. 3 Knicks Coach Derek Fisher gets into a physical altercation after being confronted by Matt Barnes of the Memphis Grizzlies at the home of Barnes’s estranged wife. Barnes is suspended for two games.Dec. 30 Cleanthony Early of the Knicks is shot in the knee by masked men and robbed of gold teeth caps after a visit to a strip club.Jan. 10, 2016 The Nets fire Coach Hollins and demote General Manager Billy King with the team at 10-27. “Frankly speaking, I deserve a championship now much more than six years ago,”  owner Mikhail D. Prokhorov says.Feb. 8 The Knicks, 23-31, fire Fisher. “There’s not a whole lot to say,” Jackson says in his first remarks to reporters since the start of training camp.April 13 The Nets finish the season 21-61, the league’s third worst record. But there will be little help on draft day: They traded their top pick to the Celtics in 2014 for a 37-year-old Kevin Garnett and a 36-year-old Paul Pierce, both of whom are gone at this point.The Knicks finish 32-50. That’s a 15-game improvement, but Jackson says, “We’re disappointed about our season.”April 17 The Nets hire Kenny Atkinson, a Hawks assistant, as head coach. “Together, we can do great things,” Prokhorov says.June 2 The Knicks hire Jeff Hornacek as coach, bypassing the interim coach, Kurt Rambis.June 22 The Knicks trade for Derrick Rose, who proclaims them a “superteam.” After a year he will leave for the Cleveland Cavaliers.July 7 The Nets sign Jeremy Lin, perhaps hoping to recapture the Linsanity that took over the Knicks in 2012.July 8 The Knicks sign Joakim Noah for four years and $72 million. This will not work out. Noah will be suspended for 20 games for a drug violation, be sent to the developmental league and get into a shouting match with Hornacek. The Knicks wind up releasing him in 2018 and paying him anyway.Feb. 8, 2017 The Knicks legend Charles Oakley is ejected from Madison Square Garden during a game. The crowd sides with the former player, chanting “Oakley, Oakley.” The Knicks say he behaved abusively, and the owner, James L. Dolan, says that Oakley “may have a problem with alcohol.” Oakley sues, claiming defamation and battery.March 12 Carmelo Anthony gets his 10,000th point as a Knick, becoming the third player to reach that mark with two teams.April 12 The Nets finish 20-62, the worst record in the league. Once again a potentially high draft pick is gone, as part of the Garnett deal. The Knicks are 31-51.June 22 The Nets trade their longtime star Brook Lopez to the Los Angeles Lakers for D’Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov. Russell will become a key player in the team’s resurgence.June 28 The Knicks and Phil Jackson agree to part ways after three years. The Knicks never fully embraced his triangle offense, and Jackson remained wary of the 3-point shot as it became increasingly important in the league. He also could never seem to get rid of Anthony, the team’s aging star who refused to waive a no-trade clause. Jackson also feuded with the player expected to be the team’s future, Porzingis.Sept. 25 A trade is finally worked out for Anthony, who is sent to the Oklahoma City Thunder for Enes Kanter. He gave the Knicks seven seasons of 20-points-a-game play. Jackson was willing “to trade me for a bag of chips,” Anthony says. He also notes that under new management, “They went from asking for peanuts to asking for steak.”Oct. 18 Lin ruptures a knee tendon  in the Nets’ opening game and misses the entire season.Feb. 6, 2018 Porzingis tears the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee and is out for the rest of this season and the next one.April 11 The Nets finish 28-54. Incredibly, for a third straight year they do not have their top pick because of that Garnett deal. (Garnett is by now 41 and has been out of the league two years.) The lost picks turned into Jaylen Brown, a big part of the contending Celtics; Markelle Fultz, a No. 1 overall choice; and Collin Sexton, who averaged 17 points as a rookie with the Cleveland Cavaliers.The Knicks wind up 29-53 and fire Hornacek the next day. David Fizdale will be the new coach.Asked how the Knicks can improve, the superfan Spike Lee can only turn to prayer: “On bended knee I pray above to da basketball gods to deliver us back to da glory years of da Orange and Blue. Amen,” he writes in The New York Times.June 20 The Nets make a trade to get Dwight Howard from the Hornets, but Howard buys his way out of his contract and never plays for them.July 13 The Nets trade Lin to the Hawks, curing the city’s second, significantly milder case of Linsanity.Jan. 31, 2019 The Knicks  send their most popular player, Porzingis, who is still recovering from the torn A.C.L., to the Dallas Mavericks in a blockbuster trade. Two months later it will be revealed that he is under investigation by the New York Police Department after being accused of sexual assault.The Knicks get Dennis Smith Jr. and some expiring contracts, which should open up salary cap space so they can sign some marquee free agents. Assuming that marquee free agents would want to play for the Knicks.March 12 Knicks fans hoping for a change in ownership are disappointed when Dolan proclaims that he will not sell the team, even for $6 billion. Two days before that, he was filmed threatening a fan with banishment from the Garden after the fan had urged him to sell the team.April 10 The Knicks have sunk to the bottom of the league again, finishing 17-65 and tying the franchise-worst mark. The Nets start the season 8-18, but then unexpectedly turn things around behind Russell, Spencer Dinwiddie (picked up from the developmental league in 2016) and Jarrett Allen (a No. 22 pick in 2017). They finish 42-40. Playoff basketball returns to New York. For now.An earlier version of this article misstated the Knicks’ record in the 2014-15 season. They were 17-65, not 17-63.Benjamin Hoffman contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — At the midpoint of the N.B.A. season, Kyle Kuzma was daydreaming about something the Lakers have yet to unveil: a small-ball lineup with LeBron James manning the center position. The Lakers already generate the third-highest pace in the league using a traditional lineup, so imagine the possibilities.“That small-ball lineup is going to be huge for us,” Kuzma told reporters on Wednesday morning, “especially in the playoffs when everybody’s going to be going small.”Kuzma, a second-year forward, was making two assumptions: first, that the Lakers would make the playoffs, and second, that they would have enough time to experiment with the lineup and refine it ahead of a hypothetical trip to the postseason. Not to stamp all over Kuzma’s enthusiasm, but neither of those is a guarantee given the way the Lakers’ hodgepodge season has gone.Coach Luke Walton, to his credit, is taking a more pragmatic approach. Though he entered the season hoping to unleash a smaller lineup that could cause mismatch problems, the Lakers do not have time to mess around with experiments, he said, not right now, not after their recent struggles, not with their continuing rash of injuries and absences.“It’s going to get tougher to do,” Walton said, adding: “As the season gets further and further down the road, those, ‘Hey, let’s try this during the game’ — it’s going to be less and less because we’re in a pretty nasty fight for who gets in and who’s not in. So it will be more about what we’re good at, and try to get better and better at that.”Every team copes with injuries of varying magnitudes, and the Lakers have dealt with their share. On Wednesday night, LeBron James — no longer indestructible, apparently — missed his eighth consecutive game with a strained left groin, but he looked upbeat on the home bench at Staples Center during his team’s 113-100 victory against the Detroit Pistons.“I thought our team showed a lot of growth from, however you want to call it, the post-LeBron injury,” said Walton, whose team improved to 23-19.An important caveat: The Pistons, who have lost 15 of their last 19 games, are not playing stellar basketball. But the LeBron-free Lakers are beginning to look more cohesive and more confident than they did in the days after they lost him to his injury on Dec. 25. They have won two straight, with James’s return date still uncertain.After the Lakers’ medical staff evaluated James on Thursday, the team announced in a statement that he was progressing and had been cleared “to increase on-court functional basketball movements.” He is scheduled to be re-evaluated next Wednesday, but in the meantime the Lakers will play on without him, starting Friday against the Utah Jazz.James’s absence — however long it lasts — may not wind up being the worst thing for the Lakers. His workload over the past decade-plus has been immense, with most of his seasons extending through the N.B.A. finals. He just turned 34. Assuming he returns at full strength, without complications, James could probably benefit from a midseason break.More important, perhaps, has been the opportunity for the team’s lesser lights to operate on their own. The training wheels are off. For a while, it looked bleak. The Lakers lost five of their first six games without James, and it got bad enough that Kobe Bryant logged on to Twitter to defend Walton from an angry mob.“Relax,” Bryant, one the franchise’s most iconic figures, wrote in a post on his account. “Entire squad is damn near out.”At the time, the Lakers were without James, Kuzma and Rajon Rondo. Rondo could miss another two to three weeks after undergoing surgery on his right hand (for the second time this season), but Kuzma, who was sidelined for two games with a back contusion, has since returned.On Monday, with the rust from his injury still apparent, Kuzma shot 4 of 20 from the field in a win against the Dallas Mavericks. On Tuesday, an off day for the Lakers, he went to the practice facility and took 500 shots, Walton said. On Wednesday, Kuzma scored a career-high 41 points in 29 minutes while shooting 16 of 24 from the field.“If you would have told me two years ago, when I was in college, that I would score 40 for the Lakers, I probably wouldn’t have believed you,” Kuzma said. “Kind of crazy.”But this is his reality at age 23, and Walton said he was also pleased with the aggressive play of Lonzo Ball and Brandon Ingram, who are both 21. They are learning as they go, and their curriculum has been more advanced in recent days.At the same time, the Lakers have emerged as a surprisingly respectable defensive team. Entering Thursday, they ranked eighth in the league in overall defensive rating.Asked what he knew about his team at this stage of the season, Walton said: “We know that when we’re at our best, we’re a really good team. We know that we’re a team that can hang our hat on playing defense and getting stops. We’re good when we get out and run. LeBron James is really good.”But really, Walton said, there are probably more unknowns than knowns with this group. On only a handful of occasions has he had close to a full roster at his disposal. The rest of the league will be interested to see what the Lakers look like when he finally does.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellUnhappy with mere tanking, displeased with their success at earning the N.B.A.’s worst record, the Knicks took Kristaps Porzingis, their once-in-a-generation asset, their most, and perhaps only, popular player, and traded him to the Dallas Mavericks on Thursday for potsherds and trinkets.Actually, point of information: Porzingis was not even the center of the transaction. The Knicks tossed him in as a sweetener to persuade the Mavericks to also take the putative shooting guard Tim Hardaway and his frightful contract. It was Steve Mills, the team president, whose feel for failure is bred in the bone, who handed Hardaway that $70.9 million deal two years ago. Now Mills and the rest of the Knicks’ vaunted leadership group have traded Porzingis to get rid of it.Had I been able to reach Mark Cuban, the Mavericks’ owner, for comment on his Porzingis heist, I can only assume he would have dissolved into uncontrollable laughter.We live in a national age of delusion and unapologetic rule-breaking, so perhaps there is a pleasingly nefarious explanation for this trade. If so, Knicks management should cling to it like a barnacle on the hull of a sinking ship. Perhaps the Knicks have successfully tampered with another team’s asset and know that Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving, or both, will sign in the summer now that the franchise has plenty of cap space.But I would put the chances that the Knicks could pull off something that clever and diabolical at 6.82 percent. When in doubt it is wisest to bank on inexplicable incompetence.Porzingis apparently helped set all this off by requesting a trade. As a 7-foot-3 23-year-old coming off a serious knee injury, he represented a conundrum for management. Do you commit this summer to a long-term contract of the sort that would tickle the tummy of Croesus? Let’s assume the Knicks’ crack medical and rehabilitation staff warned that his future looked iffy.If so, why wouldn’t Knicks management dangle Porzingis for a week or more to interested teams and let natural competitive instincts come into play around the league? When healthy, Porzingis is a top 20 player, and that made him a rare asset. Instead, the Knicks traded him posthaste for the aging center DeAndre Jordan and a talented, but raw, point guard, Dennis Smith Jr. The Knicks already have raw point guards, so maybe management succumbed to a collect-them-all fever.All theories and psychological analyses are welcome.I’ve followed the Knicks for decades now, and my sons soon contracted my affliction. Like residents in a smallpox ward we often debate whether we have divined one obscure reason or another for faint hope, which is why I hopped the subway a week ago and went to Barclays Center to watch the Knicks take on the Brooklyn Nets.It was a desultory affair at times, but it did feature a Nets team that is climbing in the standings with surprising speed, in contrast to the Knicks, who are hurtling happily downward. And the Nets played like men returned from a near-death experience, happily surprised to possess a winning record after four losing seasons in the Hades of the N.B.A.To his credit, the Nets’ general manager, Sean Marks, has executed a smart rebuild with a fishmonger’s eye for plucking useful talent out of the discard pool. The Nets play a swarming defense with a collective bounce, and their wait-who-is-that-guy no-names are long on desire and short on distorting egos. It was possible to daydream that if only they could sign a Durant or a Kawhi Leonard as a free agent, the Nets could be a genuine terror in the Eastern Conference.The Knicks offer terror of a different sort. They decided this season to double down on what they have done instinctually for so many years and devote their energies to pure losing. They are superb at it. Entering Friday’s game against Boston, their record stood at 10-40, which assures them a high draft pick in June.The modern N.B.A. is an upstairs-downstairs league and runs a two-tier competition: The upstairs version is staged by the top 10 or so teams and is all about winning and praying that your team will not face the Golden State Warriors until late in the playoffs, at which point you will be excused for exiting quickly and feet first.The downstairs version involves a half-dozen teams, and the point is to become the worst of the worst and pray you can draft a young stud who will turn around your franchise. The worst-run teams return year after year to this brackish well. This is the game at which the Knicks currently excel.And there is indeed much unlovely about these Knicks. Their defense occupies a netherworld between theoretical and clueless. Their now-traded shooting guard, Hardaway, appeared to have had his conscience surgically removed and would shoot anywhere at any time and none too successfully.And yet, and yet, I thought these Knicks offered a rough hope. They have the youngest team in the league, a group of foals, and a few might even possess lasting talent. Put them together with Porzingis, and something intriguing might emerge.Friends resisted these optimistic blandishments, and I dug that. In James Dolan, the Knicks have an owner who meddles and hires and fires team presidents and coaches like a mad king. In the past 17 seasons, the Knicks finished with a winning record precisely twice. This one will be no better.Still, I felt hope. The new coach, David Fizdale, is a clever basketball man who seemed O.K. with playing dorm father to a collection of teenagers. This week, Fizdale pointed to the Philadelphia 76ers, the Denver Nuggets and, yes, the Nets as young teams that weathered harrowing days and re-emerged in solid shape.“All of these teams went through hell,” Fizdale said. “You got to get steeled up. This league is not going to let you walk in here as a young team and just think you’re going to come out winning.”Not long after those remarks, the Knicks traded Porzingis. My eldest son, Nick, a fierce dead-ender on the question of team loyalties, is now recommending a family summit with a single agenda item: to switch or not to switch to the Nets?This feels almost as inconceivable as trading a 23-year-old star-in-the-making for potsherds.Mission accomplished all around.Email: powellm@nytimes.comAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byStars being added to Eastern Conference powerhouses drew most of the headlines, but there were other moves that could prove significant.By Benjamin HoffmanN.B.A. fans can be forgiven for being distracted by shiny objects. And there are few objects shinier than a star who is being added to a playoff contender.But even though the powerhouses of the Eastern Conference went to war over which team could add the biggest piece, it is worth taking a look at some under-the-radar moves that could prove significant this season or in the near future. Amid the flurry of moves this week, these three deals stood out as opportunities for players to thrive in situations far more advantageous to their careers than where they had been, which could end up paying significant dividends to the teams that acquired them.The Magic are trading Jonathon Simmons, a first-round pick and a second-round pick to the Philadelphia 76ers for Fultz, according to The Athletic.Why it matters: The very public breakdown of Fultz’s career has made any move involving him relevant. A consensus No. 1 pick in the 2017 draft after a terrific freshman season at Washington, Fultz was viewed by Philadelphia as the endgame of the team’s long-running Process. The Sixers traded the No. 3 pick in that draft (which ended up being Jayson Tatum) and a future first-round pick (likely to be Sacramento’s pick in this year’s draft) to Boston so they could move up two spots to get him.Things fell apart almost immediately. Fultz’s shooting form went from quirky to horrendous, debates emerged as to whether he had been injured or had simply lost his confidence, and he played just 14 games last season and 19 this season before shutting down with a diagnosis of thoracic outlet syndrome.No one knows what Fultz is capable of, but it had become painfully obvious that he was not going to have the opportunity to play his way through his problems with the Sixers, a team that believes it has a legitimate chance of winning the East this year.In Orlando, the pressure should be turned down considerably. The team values length, and while Fultz is a modest 6-foot-4, he has a seven-foot wingspan and has at times shown flashes of brilliance, including during a game last April in which he became the first teenager to officially record a triple-double in the N.B.A.In this week’s trade, Philadelphia managed to land a few picks to replace what it gave up to be able to draft Fultz. But Simmons is primarily filler to make the trade work, and the move is mostly about clearing an unproductive player off the Sixers’ roster and letting him try to find a better situation elsewhere. As Fultz looks to avoid joining Anthony Bennett and LaRue Martin as the biggest busts to be taken with the No. 1 overall pick, Orlando seems as good of a place as any to get started.The Kings traded Justin Jackson and Zach Randolph to the Dallas Mavericks for Barnes.Why it matters: The Kings entered Thursday night’s games as the No. 9 seed in the West, one and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers and one game ahead of the Los Angeles Lakers. With the Clippers having just traded Tobias Harris, the door is open for Sacramento to secure its first playoff spot since 2006.Sacramento plays extraordinarily fast, partly as a result of repeatedly using lineups with three guards, but they play at a significant size disadvantage.Enter Barnes, a 6-8 small forward who gives the team a bigger body without requiring the offense to slow down all that much.It’s hard to remember after three productive-if-uninspiring seasons in Dallas, but Barnes was once a member of Golden State’s ultrafluid Death Lineup, and if he can get back to a 3-and-D style of play, he could be a perfect addition to the Kings’ starting five, though that does not mean the deal is without drawbacks.First and foremost, Barnes has been used to a high-usage role in Dallas, and that will not be available to him in Sacramento, a team with an offensive pecking order that will make him a third option at best. He also has let his defense slide to the point where he was a net negative on the court for Dallas. The Kings will probably be on the hook for his $25.1 million player option next year, and if he isn’t on board to shift his style of play, he could make the team worse.All of that said, Barnes is still just 26, and after winning a championship in his third season, and 73 regular-season games in his fourth year, he has not sniffed the playoffs since. A return to a relevant team could unlock the complementary player who helped Golden State soar, and for a franchise that has often been accused of sabotaging itself, this is a real attempt to make the team better.The Bulls traded Jabari Parker and Bobby Portis to the Washington Wizards for Porter. Why it matters: Neither team is going anywhere this season, but Chicago is trying to set up the team’s future by acquiring Porter, a player with loads of potential — and an enormous contract — who has sometimes failed to click in Washington.Porter, a 25-year-old forward who has plenty of size at 6-8, has seen his statistics decline this season, at least in part because of the overall decline of the Wizards. But at his best, he is capable of shooting better than 40 percent from 3-point range while also contributing rebounding and passing. For an example of why Chicago would take a flier on a frustrating player owed a great deal of money, look no further than one of the players he was traded for: Parker. Last off-season, the Bulls had money to spend and wanted to make a free-agent splash. Parker, a player known as much for being injury prone as for being defense-averse, was the best they could do. In Porter they pick up a young player with plenty of potential who is owed a little more than $27 million next season and has a player option of a bit less than $28.5 million in 2020-21. That is probably better than what Chicago could get on the open market, which makes it worth saying goodbye to Portis, a decent rotation player who was mostly wasted on a team that is several big pieces away from contention.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideKnicks Coach David Fizdale pulled at the edge of his graying beard as he dissected his team’s latest blowout loss. Leading a team that is now 10-42, the worst record in the N.B.A., Fizdale has had to search hard for traces of sunshine.As he answered questions from reporters at a recent postgame news conference, the frames of his trademark glasses looked as broken as the franchise itself. The damaged black frames were held together by a glop of glue; Fizdale had cracked them earlier in the season.It is easy to say now, but with 30 games remaining the Knicks seem to have been lost from the start. They began the season with the youngest roster in the N.B.A., with an average age of less than 24.5 years old. Development became the mantra with Fizdale, who in his first season as the Knicks head coach has frequently referred to his players as “kids.” Inexperience, a revolving-door rotation, and the absence of Kristaps Porzingis — the star forward who has been out injured since February 2018 — compounded the losing.Now, after last week’s trade that sent Porzingis to the Dallas Mavericks ended any hope that he might return to save the season, the Knicks could be in danger of finishing with the worst record in franchise history. The low mark was a 17-65 record during the 2014-15 season. They have lost 13 in a row, 25 of the last 27 and a franchise-record 14 consecutive games at home. Not surprisingly, they were 27th in the league in offensive rating and 28th in defensive rating entering Monday night’s games.Of course, Knicks fans have become inured to the losing — this will be the team’s sixth consecutive season without a winning record. Other than the 2012-13 season, when the Knicks reached the Eastern Conference semifinals, it has been nearly two decades since the team advanced beyond the first round of the playoffs.Newcomers like Kevin Knox, Mitchell Robinson and Allonzo Trier may be the future, but injuries and inconsistency have marred the present. Knox, the 6-foot-9 forward chosen ninth over all in last year’s draft, is one of the youngest players in the league, at 19. In December he earned Eastern Conference Rookie of the Month honors, but his 37.1 shooting percentage needs to improve.The Knicks took a gamble on the 7-foot-1 Robinson when they selected him in the second round of June’s draft, 36th over all. He was the only player in last year’s draft who did not play in college, overseas or in the N.B.A.’s developmental league. Instead, Robinson took a year off from organized basketball after high school to get ready for the draft.Trier, a 6-foot-5 guard, went undrafted after three seasons at Arizona, but his early impressive play led to a two-year, $7 million deal with the Knicks.The Knicks’ front office has been lauded for its savvy picks in last year’s draft and its recent acquisition of reclamation projects. That acumen will be tested in June. The Knicks, who own a first-round draft pick, will have the chance to select an impact player with their winning-by-losing approach.The more they lose, the better their chances are of landing Duke’s Zion Williamson or another highly coveted prospect. Still, it is not a slam dunk — even if the Knicks fail to win 20 games this year. Being the worst team in the N.B.A. used to provide a greater advantage in the draft lottery. Because the league changed the rule to deter teams from tanking, the bottom three teams now share the same 14 percent odds of winning the No. 1 pick. Previously, the worst team held a 25 percent chance.“Obviously, you always want to win. Every game we play we’re trying to win,” Fizdale has said.But what if the Knicks actually did start winning, boosted by the three players acquired in the Porzingis trade with Dallas? The Knicks gained the promising guard Dennis Smith Jr., who was a first-round draft pick in 2017, and the expiring contracts of the veterans DeAndre Jordan and Wesley Matthews, plus two future first-round picks. Porzingis, Tim Hardaway Jr., Courtney Lee and Trey Burke were shipped to the Mavericks.The Knicks’ newcomers knew only a few of the team’s offensive plays before making their debut against Memphis on Sunday, with Smith Jr. and Jordan starting. Both made standout plays early. Smith scored his first basket on a drive into the lane with an up-and-under layup and added another in a fast-break opportunity. Jordan registered a block, followed by an alley-oop dunk off an assist from Smith. All this competent basketball made some Knicks fans nervous, leading to some angst-ridden gallows humor on social media.The Knicks held on for the loss, 96-84.With Smith and Jordan in the starting lineup, the Knicks have continued their season theme of roster roulette. Fizdale has stitched together 57 five-man lineups that have played 10 or more minutes together this season. But of those groups, only five lineups have played 50 or more minutes together.Consider center Enes Kanter, who started 23 games but lost his starting job as the team decided to focus on developing its younger players. He did not go quietly to the end of the bench. “I’ll go out and do my job and help my team win,” he said in late December. “If we’re winning, it’s good. But if we’re losing it’s a problem. If this adjustment is going to get us a win, cool. But if not, there’s a problem.”But lately the most vocal cheer at Madison Square Garden has been, “We want Kanter!” as he sits on the bench. After four consecutive games in which he did not play, Kanter entered the game against Dallas last week, went to his knees and kissed the midcourt Garden logo. He explained later that he wanted to show his love for the fans since it could be one of his final games as a Knick, with the trade deadline looming.In the second quarter against Memphis on Sunday, Fizdale looked down the bench and called for “Dennis,” referring to the newly acquired point guard Dennis Smith Jr. Kanter, however, heard “Enes” and started for the scorer’s table until he was stopped by the assistant coach Keith Smart.“He wanted to run all the way to the scorer’s table, make it a bigger spectacle,” Fizdale said. But the damage, as it is with the Knicks, was already done.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinIn a wholly unforeseen span of about 20 seconds Sunday night, viewers of the Academy Awards were exposed to an impromptu bit of sports-radio banter inspired by the faraway N.B.A.Yet it was the sort of back-and-forth, however brief, that makes the league truly uncomfortable.On what would soon become the most successful evening of Spike Lee’s professional life, Samuel L. Jackson announced from the Dolby Theater stage in Los Angeles that Lee’s beloved Knicks had beaten the San Antonio Spurs at Madison Square Garden to halt a franchise-record home losing streak at 18 consecutive defeats.Lee, who was moments away from winning his first competitive Oscar, appeared to mouth back to Jackson that the Knicks were “trying to tank” — N.B.A.-speak for teams that seek to improve their position in the draft as much as possible through rampant losing.Spike Lee: "WE'RE TRYING TO TANK" pic.twitter.com/zMXArdVPr0In truth, nothing the Knicks could do — even winning — could diminish the occasion for Lee. The Knicks’ most famous fan won the Oscar that had eluded him for more than 30 years and surely knew as well as anyone that one measly victory, even over the Spurs and their decorated coach, Gregg Popovich, wouldn’t knock the team too far off course in its shameless bid to finish at the bottom of the standings.But the exchange and ensuing waves of social media chatter shined the brightest of unwanted spotlights on a subject that N.B.A. officials undoubtedly wish would not have surfaced in this manner.For it is the public discourse that surrounds tanking — which inevitably leads to otherwise passionate fans like Lee openly wishing for their teams to lose — that has long been regarded at league headquarters as the most unsavory element of the practice.Tanking, in itself, can be a foolhardy strategy — especially in the wake of a procedural change this season. This is the first year since the inception of the N.B.A.’s draft lottery in 1985 that the teams holding the three lowest win totals will share flattened odds of 14 percent each of landing the No. 1 selection in June.Previously, the team with the worst record had a 25 percent chance of winning the top overall pick. But Commissioner Adam Silver’s push for so-called lottery reform has made it even tougher for the worst team in pro basketball — currently the Phoenix Suns, who, at 12-50, are a game behind the Knicks (12-48) — to win the right to (presumably) select the highly coveted Duke freshman Zion Williamson.If only there were clear measures to be taken to try to drown out the persistent tanking talk that seemingly (and loudly) swirls around every bad N.B.A. team. “Corrosive” is the word Silver used at his annual All-Star Weekend news conference in Charlotte, N.C., this month.“I personally don’t think it’s a winning strategy over the long term to engage in multiple years of rebuilding,” Silver said. “There’s a mind-set that, if you’re going to be bad, you might as well be really bad. I believe personally that’s corrosive for those organizations.”The Philadelphia 76ers are the rare franchise in position to differ. They amassed a load of lottery picks and other trade assets across a three-year window of intentional losing during the polarizing reign of their former general manager Sam Hinkie, who stepped down in April 2016 in response to a reduction in his authority over basketball matters before having the chance to reap the full benefits of all his team’s futility.Several of Hinkie’s high-profile draftees — Jahlil Okafor, Nerlens Noel and Dario Saric — fell well short of becoming the sort of fulcrums teams build around. Ditto for the 2017 No. 1 overall pick Markelle Fultz, who was drafted by Bryan Colangelo, Hinkie’s initial replacement. But the two selections who did become franchise players — Joel Embiid (by Hinkie) and Ben Simmons (two months after Hinkie’s exit) — now find themselves flanked by the former All-Star Jimmy Butler and a potential future All-Star in Tobias Harris. Butler and Harris arrived via trades that the Sixers’ new general manager, Elton Brand, was able to swing this season on the strength of the various trade chips Philadelphia had stockpiled under Hinkie.It is too early to say whether Silver’s lottery-reform crusade will actually quell further tanking attempts from teams pondering the Philadelphia model, but it has a chance. The flattened odds of winning the lottery mean that the Suns, Knicks and Cleveland Cavaliers, who currently comprise the bottom three teams, all face a daunting 86 percent chance that someone else wins the Zion Sweepstakes when the lottery is held May 14.One can safely assume that Lee and countless other Knicks fans will be shouting less flattering things as opposed to just mouthing them if all this losing they have endured this season leads to drafting someone other than Williamson.Since the Knicks are now linked with the 1993-94 Dallas Mavericks, having narrowly avoided breaking that team’s league record of 19 straight home losses with that unexpected triumph over San Antonio on Sunday, it is worth remembering what happened to the Mavericks that season.With Jamal Mashburn as their star rookie rather than Chris Webber or Penny Hardaway, after the Mavericks fell to the No. 4 overall pick the previous off-season despite boasting the highest odds of winning the draft lottery, they posted a 13-69 record.That is the type of cautionary tale that Silver, even as tanking talk persists, can forever serve up to discourage actual tanking: In the 34-year history of the lottery, only eight times has the team with the worst record managed to win the No. 1 pick.At least one Knicks fan in Hollywood finds the idea of tanking in professional sports to be “a horrible thing to even think about.” The actor Leon Robinson, who starred in “Above the Rim” and “Cool Runnings” and has made numerous appearances at The Garden this season, said in a phone interview Monday: “I’m never happy to see my team lose. I’m in The Garden — people go crazy every time they even get close to winning. Every time they’re losing, people are shaking their heads at halftime. So I’m confused. Why are you coming to the game?”Lee, however, is hardly alone in lusting after Williamson. It’s an open secret that the Knicks are dreaming of a mammoth free-agent coup this summer with the more than $70 million of salary-cap space they can clear; Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving are widely regarded as the Knicks’ top two targets. But make no mistake: The Knicks themselves, not just a segment of the fan base, are dreaming of Zion, too — no matter what history says.Given the immediate on-court impact one extremely gifted young man can have, in this five-on-five sport more than any other, it will probably always be thus.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points. At age 39, he became the oldest player ever to reach 50 in an NBA game.Heat 122, 76ers 99Dwyane Wade, playing the final home game of his NBA career, scored 30 points to lead Miami over Philadelphia.Wade made 10 of 23 shots, including 4 of 10 on attempts from beyond the arc. It was his second-highest scoring game of the season. But it was a bittersweet night for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention earlier in the evening when the Detroit Pistons rallied from a 22-point deficit to defeat the Memphis Grizzlies.Philadelphia, which has already clinched the third seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs, rested two of its stars: Joel Embiid, who was listed as having a knee injury, and JJ Redick (back).Warriors 112, Pelicans 103DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds against his former team as visiting Golden State defeated New Orleans.After clinching home-court advantage throughout the Western Conference playoffs on Sunday, the Warriors had Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson, Andre Iguodala and Andrew Bogut among their inactive players. Stephen Curry left for game after scoring five points in nine minutes in what the Warriors called "a precaution" after he sustained a mild foot sprain.Jahlil Okafor scored 30 points to lead the short-handed Pelicans, who dressed just eight players and finished the season 33-49.Raptors 120, Timberwolves 100Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points as visiting Toronto completed its regular-season schedule with a victory over Minnesota.The Raptors (58-24) secured the second-best record in the Eastern Conference with the win, behind only the Milwaukee Bucks (60-21), who play their final game Wednesday.Fred VanVleet added 16 points for the Raptors, Chris Boucher added career bests with 15 points and 13 rebounds, and Pascal Siakam and Norman Powell each scored 10 points. Gorgui Dieng and Andrew Wiggins each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves.Jazz 118, Nuggets 108Donovan Mitchell matched his career best of 46 points, and Utah posted a victory over Denver in Salt Lake City.Rudy Gobert added 20 points and 10 rebounds as Utah notched its ninth straight home win against Denver. Utah locked up the No. 5 seed for the Western Conference playoffs.Malik Beasley scored 25 points on 9-of-13 shooting for the Nuggets, who have lost four of their past six games and are a half-game ahead of Houston after the Rockets fell to the Oklahoma City Thunder on Tuesday.Trail Blazers 104, Lakers 101Instead of quietly sneaking into the offseason after losing its season finale to playoff-bound Portland, Los Angeles made some noise when Magic Johnson announced his resignation as president of basketball operations for the team.The game still meant something for Portland, though, and the Trail Blazers clinched home-court advantage in the first round of the Western Conference playoffs when Maurice Harkless made a 3-pointer at the buzzer for a win. The Trail Blazers can overtake the Rockets on a tiebreaker to finish third in the West with a win against the visiting Sacramento Kings on Wednesday.Harkless, who left the previous game with left hip tightness, finished with 26 points. Kentavious Caldwell-Pope had 32 points and eight assists for the Lakers, who finished with 37 wins -- two more than last season.Thunder 112, Rockets 111Russell Westbrook scored 29 points, but it was Paul George's corner 3-pointer with 1.8 seconds left that sent Oklahoma City to a home win over Houston.Oklahoma City trailed by 14 early in the fourth quarter and by four in the final minute before Westbrook's and George's heroics.James Harden made his first 12 free throws in the game but with less than 10 seconds left and Houston on top 111-109, he missed one, giving the Thunder a chance to tie or take the lead. Westbrook barreled up the court, briefly handing the ball off to Steven Adams near midcourt before getting the ball and firing it to George in the corner for what proved to be the game-winner.Celtics 116, Wizards 100Terry Rozier led seven Boston players in double figures with 21 points as his team closed out the regular season with a win over host Washington.The Celtics rallied from a 13-point, third-quarter deficit for their sixth win in eight games. Boston, which played without Marcus Smart, Jayson Tatum, Kyrie Irving, Al Horford, Marcus Morris, Aron Baynes and Gordon Hayward, will be the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs.Semi Ojeleye, Brad Wanamaker and RJ Hunter had 17 points apiece for Boston, which outscored Washington 27-15 in the fourth quarter. Tomas Satoransky led the Wizards with 19 points, and Bradley Beal scored 16 points in 16 minutes. Beal became the first person in franchise history to finish a season averaging at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists per game.Pistons 100, Grizzlies 93Andre Drummond scored 20 points and grabbed 17 rebounds, and Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to defeat visiting Memphis.Despite winning, the Pistons were unable to clinch the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. The Charlotte Hornets beat the Cleveland Cavaliers and remain one game behind Detroit heading into Wednesday night's final regular-season games. The Pistons finish against the Knicks at New York while the Hornets host the Orlando Magic.The Pistons, who trailed by 22 in the second quarter, climbed all the way back and took an 85-83 lead on Ish Smith's jumper just moments after his 3-pointer tied the score at 83-all. Smith finished with 22 points off the bench, and Luke Kennard added 15 for Detroit.Hornets 124, Cavaliers 97Kemba Walker and Jeremy Lamb scored 23 points apiece, and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive with a victory over host Cleveland.The Hornets led by 12 points in the first half and then pushed the lead all the way to 27 in the fourth quarter, winning their fourth straight and eighth in their past 11 games. They hit a season-high 22 3-pointers on 44 attempts and shot 57.7 percent from the field.Miles Bridges and Dwayne Bacon added 18 points apiece for the Hornets. Frank Kaminsky scored 14 and Devonte Graham had 10. Collin Sexton led the Cavs with 18 points.Knicks 96, Bulls 86Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points and Kevin Knox and Luke Kornet each notched double-doubles to lead New York past host Chicago.Knox had 17 points and 10 rebounds, Kornet chipped in 12 points and 13 rebounds and Damyean Dotson added 12 points for the Knicks (17-64), who are already assured of the NBA's worst record this season. They can do no worse than tie the franchise record for fewest wins in a regular season, set in 2014-15.The Bulls closed the home portion of their schedule with a 9-32 record, setting a franchise record for home futility. The 2000-01 team held the previous club standard for fewest home victories with 10.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byJames and Antetokounmpo will pick from a pool of 24 players for this year’s N.B.A. All-Star Game. To get them started, we did a mock version of the draft. By Benjamin Hoffman and Scott CacciolaLeBron James and Giannis Antetokounmpo will have their work cut out for them when they make their picks as captains in just the second N.B.A. All-Star draft — and the first to be televised. The task is their prize for receiving the most votes in their conferences — James in the West, and Antetokounmpo in the East — during All-Star balloting from fans, media and players.To help them out, we stepped in as captains for a mock draft in our bid to build the perfect teams. We have asked Marc Stein, our venerable N.B.A. reporter and columnist, to weigh in on which of us came away with a winner.The rules are the same as those that will be employed on Thursday:Each team must first select a starting lineup from the eight other starters as selected by the fans, media and players. The 2019 #NBAAllStar Starters!  #LeBronJames #GiannisAntetokounmpo #JoelEmbiid #KyrieIrving #KembaWalker#StephenCurry #JamesHarden #PaulGeorge #KevinDurant#KawhiLeonard pic.twitter.com/ayCxLDckg4The second round will feature the 14 reserves, and the third round will feature the game’s two veteran ambassadors, Dirk Nowitzki of the Dallas Mavericks and Dwyane Wade of the Miami Heat. Team LeBron (Scott Cacciola) will pick first in the first and third rounds, and Team Giannis (Benjamin Hoffman) will pick first among the reserves. Round One — StartersTeam LeBronCacciola: If I’m channeling my Inner LeBron, I’m rewarding Harden for his ridiculous first half of the season by making him the first pick, and I’m going to expect him to take no fewer than 20 stepback 3s from just inside half-court.Team GiannisHoffman: There are arguments to be made for other players, but once you consider Giannis’s skill set, there is no one more complementary than Curry. With the space created by Curry’s outside shooting — he’s actually gotten more bold with long 3-pointers, if you can believe it — the lane will be wide open for the dunks that will get Giannis named the game’s most valuable player.Team LeBronCacciola: Wait a second, Ben: I didn’t know we were treating this like an actual game with actual strategy. That changes everything. Or does it? Putting aside personal rivalries, with my second pick, I’m taking Kevin Durant because he, too, is really good at basketball. I also want to reunite him with Harden, his former teammate, and let them fight over the ball.Team GiannisHoffman: I’m not loving the size disparity so far — Harden is officially only three inches taller than Curry but is also somehow at least two feet taller than Curry — so I’ll take the biggest guy in the starter pool. But based on my stated goal of designing a team to get Giannis the M.V.P. Award, I would be careful about having these two on the floor together all that much unless we start to fall behind.Team LeBronCacciola: I need a defensive stopper. While I acknowledge that a case could be made for Paul George as the league’s top defender this season, is there any question that Leonard will approach this game the same way he does a mid-March clash with the Bucks? The guy does not turn off the intensity — ever. So I’m having him guard all five guys at once, because I already know that no one else will even pretend to play defense.Team GiannisHoffman: There’s a legitimate argument that you have the best four players on the court so far, and despite my belief that my guys are perfect to play with each other, I’m getting a little nervous. The obvious play here would be to counter the Kawhi pick with George, but I want to avoid the LeBron-Kyrie pairing because I’ve seen how dangerous it can be.Team LeBronCacciola: I’m going with more size and more versatility with my final pick among the starters, and I think you’re in trouble, Ben. A quick aside: George has been incredible for the Thunder this season, and he looks like a man playing with an untroubled conscience — and without the distraction of free agency and looming future decisions. If you take a look at this current batch of All-Stars, that makes George something of a rare breed.Team GiannisHoffman: O.K., so I didn’t actually have a choice to make here, but if there’s going to be one guy left in a gym waiting to be picked, it’s pretty good for it to be a guy who had a 60-point game earlier this season and who happens to be playing in his home arena. My team is small and fast so far, but over all there’s a star-power gap that I’m going to have to make up for in the reserves, which I will do from the start by stealing Anthony Davis (before Actual LeBron steals him from the Actual Pelicans).Team LeBron: James Harden, Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Paul GeorgeTeam Giannis: Stephen Curry, Joel Embiid, Kyrie Irving, Kemba WalkerRound Two — ReservesTeam GiannisTeam LeBronTeam GiannisHoffman: It’s almost entirely a function of format, but a guy who will most likely finish second to Harden in M.V.P. voting going with the 11th pick is a little weird! Jokic does a lot of things well. He’s a passing savant, he’s a good rebounder, he shoots better than you probably think and he provides some size without sacrificing the fluid ball movement I’ll have to hope can be built through my starters.Team LeBronTeam GiannisTeam LeBronCacciola: I’m not exactly sure what it means that Westbrook is the 14th overall pick in our mock draft. Maybe it means that the league is so rich with top-tier talent that it’s not even shocking that a former M.V.P. who is (again) averaging a triple-double slipped to the middle of the second round. But here we are.Team GiannisTeam LeBronTeam GiannisTeam LeBronTeam GiannisTeam LeBronTeam GiannisTeam LeBronRound Three — AmbassadorsTeam LeBronCacciola: This is the most obvious pick in the entire draft this side of Anthony Davis. Wade and James go way back, well before the Banana Boat days, and Wade has already made it abundantly clear that James better pick him. With retirement around the bend for Wade, the game will be full of nostalgia — not only for Wade, but for the partnership he formed with James (and Chris Bosh) in Miami when superstar conglomerates were still a novel concept.Team GiannisHoffman: One of the greatest scorers in N.B.A. history, Dirk can’t really move around much, and other than getting in the game to launch a jumper or two he’s not a lot of added value on the court. But off the court he’s still one of the funniest players in the league. Taking a look at Team LeBron, my bench may need some moments of levity in what could turn into an ugly game.Can I mock your picks instead of treating this like an actual game with something as mainstream as a prediction? We are looking for free agency clues in Thursday’s draft — not basketball decisions. I suppose I will go with Team LeBron/Cacciola over Team Giannis/Hoffman if I’m forced to choose, but what we really want to know is: Will LeBron draft Irving? And/or Davis? He always has a down-the-road plan in mind.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
Giannis or Harden for M.V.P.? Who makes the Warriors better: Steph or K.D.? Marc Stein considers these questions and more in the latest edition of his newsletter.Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate for this season’s Most Valuable Player Award.CreditCreditMorry Gash/Associated PressSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to get this newsletter from Marc Stein each week — for free? Sign up here.]As the 2018-19 regular season dribbles to a close, with just two nights and 22 of 1,230 games to go, voters leaguewide are finalizing their year-end award ballots in six major categories. I am no longer one of them, because The New York Times does not permit its reporters to vote for such awards, but it’s still a useful exercise as we take stock of the season to break down each race and who I would have picked.Official selections are due Friday night and there is simply no wrong answer when choosing between Antetokounmpo and Houston’s James Harden for the top spot on the five-man M.V.P. ballot.I have always approached this category by trying to identify who had the best overall season — based on a subjective and imprecise mixture of individual and team success — rather than paying attention to the noise about which player is most widely regarded as the game’s best … or the best two-way player … or any other such designation.So who had the better 2018-19 season? I would go (ever so narrowly) with Giannis. On top of all his individual superlatives, Antetokounmpo has been the face and chief culture-setter in the Bucks’ transformation from 44-win underachiever to the best team in the league (regular-season edition). And his candidacy gets bonus points on our scorecard because Milwaukee, for Eastern Conference supremacy, had to beat out a trio of worthy challengers who were all projected as superior before the season.Harden would be tremendously unlucky to finish second in M.V.P. balloting for the third time in five seasons, but I think that’s where this is headed. He is going to be the first scoring champion (36.1 points per game) to win the scoring title by more than eight points per game since Michael Jordan did over Dominique Wilkins in 1986-87. And I tend to agree with Houston Coach Mike D’Antoni’s contention that Harden is the only player capable of hauling the injury-riddled Rockets to 53 victories out of the 11-14 hole they were in. Harden simply has the misfortune of doing all that damage in a season that belonged to Antetokounmpo and the Bucks.It feels as though I have been writing and tweeting about Doncic and his Atlanta Hawks counterpart Trae Young all season. I suspect I will be writing about the two of them for the next decade-plus. And I’m fine with that.Doncic has had the start-to-finish stronger campaign and continued to look like a franchise player even though the Mavericks steadily increased his Year 1 workload after trading away four-fifths of their starting lineup in February. The trade brought in Kristaps Porzingis and better positions Dallas to build out a supporting cast tailored to their electric European import.Young has delivered even more impressive post-All-Star break production (24.9 points per game and 9.1 assists per game) for a scrappy Hawks team with a passable record of 23-29 since its dismal 6-23 start — and an increasingly bright future.Doncic is going to win the race, but Young overcame his own worrisome launch to make it a competition — and a rivalry that should have staying power — with his second-half surge.Doncic will be remembered as the only rookie in N.B.A. history not named Oscar Robertson to average at least 20 points, 7 rebounds and 5 assists. And Young can take solace in being almost as unfortunate as Harden if he doesn’t win the hardware. It’s quite a compliment when you think about it.Had the Indiana Pacers won 50 games in a season in which Victor Oladipo was healthy enough to play only 36, Nate McMillan would have the résumé to deny the Bucks’ Budenholzer. I’m not sure McMillan is miles off with 47 wins.Doc Rivers of the Los Angeles Clippers, like McMillan, is another victim of bad timing. Rivers hasn’t had a team overachieve like these starless Clippers since his rookie season on the bench with Orlando in 1999-2000 when the Magic won a wholly unexpected 41 games in a season billed as a placeholder before a splashy free-agent summer that ultimately landed Grant Hill and Tracy McGrady in the Magic Kingdom.But Milwaukee’s improvement in Budenholzer’s first season has been so dramatic that I can’t see how he doesn’t win his second Coach of the Year trophy. Perhaps some voters will try to convince themselves that the Bucks would be getting too much love if they vote for both Giannis for M.V.P. and Bud for this honor. But we’re talking about the league’s only 60-win team … and the runaway champions in average point differential for the season (+9.1) … and the only team in the league to rank in the top five in both offensive and defensive efficiency.Antetokounmpo is the biggest reason all that is possible. General Manager Jon Horst is likewise on an impressive run of roster moves. But Budenholzer’s impact has been undeniable.Honorable mentions, along with McMillan and Rivers: Denver’s Mike Malone, Brooklyn’s Kenny Atkinson, Portland’s Terry Stotts, Orlando’s Steve Clifford, Detroit’s Dwane Casey, Golden State’s Steve Kerr and, of course, San Antonio’s Gregg Popovich.Manu Ginobili, who just had his familiar No. 20 retired by the San Antonio Spurs, used to be synonymous with sixth man excellence to me. Ditto for Jamal Crawford.Yet I’d say Williams wears that crown now.The Clippers’ designated scorer won this award last season and stands as a huge favorite to join Crawford as the league’s only three-time winner — despite the challenge he’s getting from teammate Montrezl Harrell.Someone from the Clippers has to win some year-end recognition in light of the Cinderella season they’ve assembled. Williams makes the most sense over a quality field that also features Harrell, Indiana’s Domantas Sabonis, Brooklyn’s Spencer Dinwiddie, New Orleans’ Julius Randle and San Antonio’s Davis Bertans.As the self-proclaimed overseer of the All-Lefty Team, it pains me to snub both D’Angelo Russell of the Nets and Sacramento’s De’Aaron Fox in this category.But I’ve been saying for years that ultra-high former draft picks like Russell and second-year players like Fox are not going to be Most Improved candidates for me. Russell made a tremendous, inspiring leap to All-Star status in Brooklyn this season, but the wow factor partly stems from the fact that he fell so far short of expectations in his first three seasons. Fox, meanwhile, made the sort of Year 1-to-Year 2 leap Sacramento was counting on from someone it billed as a franchise cornerstone.No one expected Siakam to become an impact player at both ends and a borderline All-Star who helped the Raptors to post 57 wins amid the 22 games Kawhi Leonard missed for various reasons of injury and precaution.The nostalgic sap in me, truth be told, wanted to go with Minnesota’s resurgent Derrick Rose. But D-Rose only wound up being healthy enough to appear in 51 games — and as a former M.V.P. he’s more of a Comeback Player of the Year than a Most Improved candidate. The N.B.A.’s specific instructions in this category read as follows: “This award is designed to honor an up-and-coming player who has made a dramatic improvement from the previous season or seasons. It is not intended to be given to a player who has made a ‘comeback.’ ”Siakam, in other words, is perfect. He’s a former No. 27 overall pick who zoomed from role player to foundational player — either beside Leonard or in a post-Kawhi world should Leonard flee Canada in free agency this summer.Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate here, too, as is Oklahoma City’s Paul George and Indiana’s Myles Turner. But the Bucks, at least on this mythical ballot, will have to settle for two of the six top prizes.Three would have been too many. Especially since Utah’s Gobert remains such a dominant deterrent at the rim in his role as the anchor for a defense that officially ranks No. 2 but is essentially on par with Milwaukee’s.[Marc Stein’s newsletter will have the latest on the N.B.A. playoffs, which start Saturday. Sign up here.]You ask; I answer. Every week in this space, I’ll field three questions posed via email at marcstein-newsletter@nytimes.com. (Please include your first and last name, as well as the city you’re writing in from, and make sure the subject line reads “Corner Three.”)Q: Deandre Ayton hasn’t had a terrible rookie year, but it has paled in comparison to what we’ve seen from Luka Doncic and Trae Young. What do you think Ayton needs to improve on — and will he ever match Luka or Trae’s potential? — Henry Roth (Scottsdale, Ariz.)STEIN: It speaks to how far the Suns have faded from prominence that Ayton, as the No. 1 overall pick last June, got so little attention given the numbers he posted (16.3 points and 10.3 rebounds per game).The leaguewide fascination with Doncic and Young is also a factor, as you mentioned, but Ayton was overlooked in the extreme this season. Suns fans should be hoping that the snub helps motivate Ayton in Year 2, because consistency and sustained energy have been issues for him so far.From a technical standpoint, Ayton has to develop into more of a rim protector. With his mobility and athleticism, Phoenix should be able to build a defense around him. He’s not close to elite yet at that end.But it would also be unfair to ignore that Ayton was frequently forced to start alongside two other rookies on a squad that still doesn’t have a starter-level N.B.A. point guard.Q: Dirk Nowitzki hasn’t come out and said he is retiring, but everyone else seems to be saying it. At first I didn’t believe Adam Silver would have put Dirk in the All-Star Game if he didn’t have it on good authority that Dirk would soon retire, but could this actually not be his final year? It looks like Dirk’s ankle has finally recovered from surgery and he’s moving a lot better. Why not play one more season with Luka Doncic and Kristaps Porzingis and try to go out with a playoff berth? — Sharad AcharyaSTEIN: This much I can tell you: Dirk joining Dwyane Wade in the All-Star Game as a so-called “commissioner’s pick” has nothing to do with Nowitzki’s retirement plans. As Dirk stated before, during and after his trip to Charlotte, this was his All-Star swan song no matter what, even if he decided to play next season.I think there have been times since the All-Star break when an encouraged Nowitzki has imagined himself carrying on. He’s been a huge Porzingis fan for years and would naturally love to experience the Doncic/Porzingis tandem. But the reality is that season No. 21 has been a bigger challenge physically than he ever imagined.Is it really worth putting his body through the rigors of yet another nine-month ride? The case against coming back is much stronger than the case for it, which is why you’ve heard the likes of Mark Cuban and Steve Nash give interviews in recent days that make it sound as though the end is near.Q: I’d like to hear your thoughts on how Stephen Curry makes everyone else on the floor better and how that may not necessarily be the case with Kevin Durant? — Michael DortheimerSTEIN: Anyone who believes this must not have watched the last two N.B.A. finals.Steph is Golden State’s No. 1 playmaker and a true revolutionary when it comes to the way his seemingly limitless shooting range bends defenses.But there’s a reason Durant has won back-to-back M.V.P. trophies in the finals. He’s the best finisher in the game and was the best player on the floor on the game’s grandest stage two years in a row.The Warriors are 32-6 in the playoffs since Durant arrived. Who would dare say he doesn’t make all of the other Warriors better just by being out there?Curry has the ball in his hands more, which surely fuels the perception you describe, but Durant commands more double teams than any other Warrior and is a great passer both out of the post and in pick-and-roll situations. There is no shortage of coaches and scouts around the league who regard him as an elite playmaker.This is the fifth time in the Knicks’ 73-season history that they’ve had the league’s worst record. The first three times, there were fewer than 10 teams in the league: 1960-61 (21-58 in an eight-team league), 1962-63 (21-59 in a nine-team league) and 1964-65 (22-58 in a nine-team league). The Knicks were also at the bottom of a 23-team league in 1985-86 at 23-59. At 16-64 so far this season, the Knicks will post the lowest win total in franchise history unless they win at least one of their final two games. Utah’s Rudy Gobert is poised to finish this season with more dunks than anyone else, with 301 dunks to Antetokounmpo’s 279 for Milwaukee. Gobert, though, has played in all 80 of Utah’s games this season. Antetokounmpo has missed 12 of the Bucks’ 81 games to date. Antetokounmpo’s Bucks finished 18th in defensive rating last season. They’ve climbed 17 spots this season to rank No. 1 overall entering Tuesday’s play, allowing 104.8 points per 100 possessions. Jason Terry’s 590 regular-season games alongside Dirk are the most of any teammate in Nowitzki’s 21 seasons in Dallas. J.J. Barea ranks second (and No. 1 among active Mavericks) with 543 regular-season games. The Mavericks say Nowitzki has had 197 teammates.This is the 39th consecutive season, according to the peerless data maintained by Basketball-Reference.com, during which the average height of N.B.A. players is 6-foot-7. The last season that featured a different figure was 1979-80, when the average height of N.B.A. players was 6-foot-6.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinCarmelo Anthony will finally secure his escape from the Houston Rockets on Tuesday when the Rockets complete a trade that sends the former All-Star to the Chicago Bulls, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.The Bulls have no intention of playing Anthony but could elect to keep him until the Feb. 7 trade deadline and use him in another potential deal, according to the person, who was not authorized to discuss the trade publicly.The trade with Chicago, which is also expected to include some minor draft compensation, could not be executed Monday because the league office was closed in observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day. But the Rockets, as first reported by ESPN, offered an undisclosed amount of cash to convince the Bulls to take on the remainder of Anthony’s $2.4 million salary for this season, which will result in a luxury-tax savings of $2.6 million for Houston.Anthony, 34, has been in search of a new team since Nov. 11, when The New York Times first reported that the former Knick’s time with the Rockets was coming to an end after just 10 games together.Houston formally announced on Nov. 15 that the sides were “parting ways” but has kept Anthony on the roster for the past two months in hopes of trading him rather than outright releasing him, thus avoiding the luxury-tax hit.Whether Anthony stays on Chicago’s roster until Feb. 7 or becomes a free agent sooner than that, his challenge remains finding a team willing to give him another shot after failed stints with Houston and the Oklahoma City Thunder. Concerns about Anthony’s defense and his ability to shed his ball-dominant ways of the past and adapt to a catch-and-shoot role have resulted in scant interest in him despite his accomplished résumé.The Times reported last month that the Los Angeles Lakers, the Philadelphia 76ers and the Charlotte Hornets are among the teams that have weighed but ultimately resisted pursuing Anthony since the Rockets sent him away from the team.The Rockets spent the weekend trying to find a new home for Anthony via trade to create a roster spot for the veteran big man Kenneth Faried, who signed with Houston on Monday after securing a contract buyout from the Nets on Friday.Trades can happen on weekends and holidays but only if the league office is given notice that a deal is in the works by 6 p.m. on the most recent business day. As a result, Houston was forced to release the swingman James Nunnally to create the roster room to add Faried.The Rockets are hoping Faried can help fill the void created by a thumb injury to starting center Clint Capela, who is expected to be sidelined for at least a month after undergoing surgery last week.Advertisement
Filip Peraić needed a career boost. He found one by drawing Harden, the Houston Rockets guard, in profile over and over and over again.CreditCreditFilip PeraićSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanFilip Peraić was in a rut. A freelance illustrator bored of his contract work, he had hoped to reignite his love of art through a long-term personal project.It made sense that Peraić, 30, who is from the basketball-obsessed city of Zadar, Croatia, would come up with a project related to the N.B.A. But instead of taking a broad look at his favorite players, or honoring his country’s many N.B.A. stars, Peraić decided to do something more specific — remarkably so. His project would consist entirely of portraits of James Harden’s head in profile, from the right side of the Houston Rockets star’s face.Suddenly Harden, who is known for his distinctive beard, existed in portrait form — as a tribute to Jackson Pollock in one of Peraić’s works and as a tribute to Wassily Kandinsky in another. There was one in the style of a medical illustration, and another that was a map of the fictional country of Hardenia. His beard became a giant whale, and it took on the distinctive curls of a Greek philosopher. In one particularly disturbing image, Harden’s face was replicated with human hair. In all, Peraić’s project, which came to be known as James Harden Illustrated, had 26 images, each one seemingly more bizarre than the previous one.“The best portraits are when I surprise myself,” Peraić said in a telephone interview. “I’m thinking about James Harden’s head constantly — it’s my passion project.”With Harden in the middle of a remarkable season, in which he is almost certain to finish with the highest scoring average of any player in N.B.A. history besides Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan, Peraić is set to release another batch of the illustrations. The first was posted Thursday, and there will be one released each week for the next seven weeks, thus carrying Peraić’s followers into the playoffs.On Tuesday, in hopes of showcasing the existing work in advance of the new batch, Peraić tweeted out a thread of the 26 original images, which were completed from 2013 to 2017. The thread caught fire and was shared and favorited thousands of times.Peraić said the attention the posts received was gratifying, but he was especially excited by certain people who noticed them.He referred to a few journalists who shared the post, then mentioned two people who favorited the thread: Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Rockets, and Kirk Goldsberry, a former San Antonio Spurs executive. “That’s really cool because as an N.B.A. geek, I follow these people constantly,” Peraić said. “To see them reacting to my work is really rewarding.”Then there was Harden. He was once interviewed on TNT with a poster of Peraić’s portraits behind him. But other than that, Peraić did not know how Harden felt about the work. That changed Wednesday afternoon. Harden tweeted six of the images, reacting to each with emoji. “Yo @filiperaic,” Harden wrote in the first of the series of tweets, “these are dope!”Beyond rubbing elbows online with his N.B.A. heroes, Peraić has experienced tangible career benefits from the project. Recently, he worked on a series of images for the singer-songwriter Leon Bridges, and while the images may not have Harden’s beard in them, they are clearly in the same vein as the Harden project.The rut he had found himself in career-wise, it seemed, had created an opportunity.“I started this project just for my own pleasure and to try something else because I wasn’t satisfied with the kind of work I was getting,” Peraić said. “Now art directors come up to me and say, ‘We want this kind of James Harden portrait.’”Amusingly enough, considering how much time Peraić spends thinking about Harden, the Rockets guard is not, and has never been, the illustrator’s favorite player. He mentioned living near the city in Croatia where Drazen Petrovic, the Hall of Famer, grew up, and said he had always preferred Manu Ginobili and Kobe Bryant over Harden.“People think that I’m obsessed with James Harden, and that’s really not the case,” he said. “I just wanted to pick someone that had an interesting face that was easily recognizable.”Of the original batch of portraits, Peraić said his favorites were one comprising a single line and another in which Harden’s profile had morphed into a thermal image of an approaching hurricane.“I like repetition, and I’m a bit stubborn,” he said when asked how he could keep coming back to the same image. “When I made a couple of them I thought, ‘This is really interesting.’ It’s a challenge for me.”The images can take anywhere from a few hours to a few days to complete, with one in which Harden’s profile was recreated using only flowers and other vegetation representing the high-water mark for effort so far. The project requires enough time that it has regularly run up against Peraić’s contract work, which forced the recent pause in his output. He acknowledged that of the eight works planned for the new batch, only six are complete so far.When he finishes the final two, that will bring the project to 34 portraits. Until the next one.“I feel that this is a never-ending project,” Peraić said. “Maybe if James Harden shaves his beard, that would be the end.”Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bykeeping scoreHarden’s 57 points against Memphis accounted for more than half of his team’s total helping make up for his lack of a supporting cast.By Benjamin HoffmanNo Chris Paul. No Eric Gordon. No Clint Capela. No problem. The Houston Rockets still have James Harden.In a mind-boggling performance, Harden and his supporting cast — if you can call it that — managed to beat the Memphis Grizzlies by 112-94 at Houston’s Toyota Center, with Harden scoring 57 points in 34 minutes.It was the 17th game in a row in which Harden scored at least 30 points — a feat previously accomplished in a single season by only Wilt Chamberlain — and it was Harden’s third game of 50 or more points this season. No other player has more than one.Coach Mike D’Antoni may have recorded the 600th win of his N.B.A. career in the game, but he was more interested in making sure people recognized the greatness of Harden’s feat.“What he just did, we kind of take it for granted a little bit,” D’Antoni told reporters. “It’s like, ‘Oh, look at that, isn’t that cute?’ It’s 57!” Harden, however, tried to keep the focus on Houston continuing to climb in the standings, and making up for Sunday’s loss to Orlando.“I don’t know if it was an emotional lift,” Harden told reporters of Monday’s win, “but I know it’s crunchtime in the sense that we’ve got three starters out and guys have got to pick up the slack. There’s no excuse.”While the outburst was hardly unexpected for Harden, who is now averaging an N.B.A.-leading 34.8 points a game, the Rockets’ personnel situation made it stand out. Paul has been out with an injured hamstring since Dec. 20 and Gordon has been out with an injured knee since Dec. 29. Houston’s injury report then took on what seemed like a crippling blow earlier on Monday when it was revealed that Capela, the team’s center — and the most frequent recipient of Harden’s assists — would be out for four to six weeks as a result of ligament damage in his right thumb.That list of injuries left Harden starting alongside the forgettable quartet of P.J. Tucker, Nene, Austin Rivers and Danuel House Jr. No matter, as Harden joined Kemba Walker as the only players to score more than half of their team’s points in a game this season.Harden was hot from the start, setting a Rockets record with 36 points in the first half, and he succeeded all game with his typical combination of 3-pointers (6 for 15) and free-throws (17 for 18). He also led all players in the game with nine rebounds and committed just five turnovers despite his outrageous level of usage.The last time Harden scored fewer than 30 points was Dec. 11 in Houston’s win over the Portland Trail Blazers, and he just barely missed the feat that night, with 29 points on 10 of 21 shooting. Since then he has averaged 41.3 points a game over the 17 games in which the Rockets, who got off to a poor start this season, have gone 13-4.In the 17 games, Harden has topped 50 points twice and 40 points 10 times. He has also recorded five triple-doubles.While Harden’s performance on Monday broke his tie with Kobe Bryant and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar for the N.B.A.’s longest single-season streak of 30-plus points by a player not named Chamberlain, Harden has a long way to go before catching Wilt.Chamberlain had 30-point streaks, of 20, 25, 31 and 65 games in his career, according to Basketball-Reference.com. The longest one, which came during the 1961-62 season, is likely an unbreakable record, but it comes with an amusing footnote: In Chamberlain’s last game before the streak started, he was held to 28 points in a loss to Bill Russell’s Boston Celtics. When the streak finally ended more than three months later, Chamberlain was held to 26 points — in a loss to Russell’s Celtics.As it currently stands, though, Harden does not appear to have a foil that can be his version of Russell, so there is no telling when this streak will end.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The Los Angeles Lakers described last weekend’s N.B.A. All-Star break as an opportunity for a much-needed reset, with the hope that they could ultimately make a playoff push after spending a few days apart. None of it sounded very convincing.But when the team reconvened for practice on Wednesday morning, LeBron James said his level of intensity had been “activated,” as if he were a superhero who had flipped a switch. He does not usually activate himself this early in the season, he said, but the Lakers need all of him now — in large part because they had lost so much ground when he was sidelined for about a month with a groin injury.“We would have loved to have had success when I was out, but we didn’t, so this is where we are right now,” James said.And when asked how he would elevate the play of his younger teammates, he put it simply: “We don’t have a choice.”In other words, it was sink or swim for the Lakers before their game against the Houston Rockets on Thursday night, and there would be no lifeguard.For one night, at least, the Lakers swam. They were cohesive enough to come away with a 111-106 victory against one of the better teams in the Western Conference. For one night, at least, the Lakers showed that they could erase a 19-point deficit by playing solid defense and making their free throws. For one night, at least, the Lakers could depend on players like Brandon Ingram (27 points, 13 rebounds) and Kyle Kuzma (18 points) to deliver in a game that the team really needed to win.The question now is whether the Lakers, who at 29-29 are the very definition of average, can build off it. Consistency has not been their hallmark.“It can give us some momentum that we need,” Coach Luke Walton said, “or it can do nothing. It depends how we respond to this.”Not so long ago, the Lakers had a similarly galvanizing win — or so it seemed.It was Feb. 7, and before the league’s trade deadline Magic Johnson, the team’s president of basketball operations, had failed in his quest to ship nearly half of the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans in exchange for the All-Star center Anthony Davis. It was a huge soap opera, and the Lakers responded in surprising fashion: by going out that night and defeating the Boston Celtics — on the road, no less.The win, though, was fool’s gold. The Lakers got pulverized by the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, then hobbled into the All-Star break with a loss to the Atlanta Hawks — a performance so devoid of energy that it seemed to signal a dysfunctional locker room, and maybe even one that was beyond repair.The team was below .500.Walton encouraged his players to reflect and refocus over the break. For James, that meant returning to Los Angeles in playoff mode — much earlier than he would prefer.But this is unfamiliar territory for James, a three-time champion who has made 13 straight trips to the playoffs and eight straight appearances in the N.B.A. finals. Now, with an inexperienced batch of teammates on the Lakers, he is merely fighting to lead them into the postseason.“I’m all about being uncomfortable,” he said this week. “I love being uncomfortable. I fall in love with being uncomfortable, so this is another uncomfortable thing for me, and I love it.”Then he must have loved what happened against the Rockets (33-25), who built a gaping lead in the third quarter behind James Harden. But the Lakers dominated the fourth quarter by limiting the Rockets to 36.8 percent shooting and forcing six turnovers. James finished with 29 points, 11 rebounds and 6 assists.“He’s had more of a serious focus on his face, about him, the last two days, even in the practice facility,” Walton said, adding: “I think he recognizes where we’re at and the sense of urgency we need to play with.”The Lakers also benefited from the fresh presence of Reggie Bullock, a versatile wing whom they acquired from the Detroit Pistons at the trade deadline. Bullock scored 14 points and defended the Rockets’ James Harden for long stretches. For a team that lacks much experience, Bullock could make a difference moving forward.“He’s a vet,” James said. “It’s great to have a shooter of his caliber, of his size; his competitive nature out on the floor. He was big for us.”The Lakers left Staples Center two and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final playoff spot in the West. But James expressed supreme confidence as the team prepared to visit the Pelicans on Saturday.“I like where I’m at,” he said. “I will love where I’m at in the next few games, and I believe — continue to get better and better.”As for his teammates — well, that is up to them.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSTONY BROOK, N.Y. — The Rio Grande Valley Vipers are G League champions for the third time.Isaiah Hartenstein scored 30 points, Dakarai Tucker and Michael Frazier each added 24 and the Vipers — the Houston Rockets' affiliate — never trailed on the way to beating the Long Island Nets 129-112 on Friday night in Game 3 of the G League Finals.Gary Payton II added 17 for the Vipers. Rio Grande Valley won the series 2-1, and added this title to ones the franchise claimed in 2010 and 2013 when what's now the G League was known as the NBA Development League.A 24-2 run in the second quarter put the game away for the Vipers, who lost Game 1 of the title series before rallying to win the title.Hartenstein made a pair of 3-pointers in an early 8-0 run that put the Vipers up 30-16, and the barrage in the second quarter left no doubt. Jordan Johnson scored 10 points in the 24-2 spurt, including the first seven — those coming in a span of 52 seconds.Alan Williams scored 26 points, Dzanan Musa had 24 and Jordan McLaughlin added 22 for Long Island. The Nets, Brooklyn's affiliate, and the Vipers were among four teams who were tied for the G League's best regular-season record at 34-16.The G League had 27 teams this season, and will grow to 28 next season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe rapper was not pleased that the Minnesota Timberwolves mocked his performance in Milwaukee. He put a curse on the team.By Benjamin HoffmanSports curses come in all shapes and sizes. They can involve livestock, soup commercials, magazine covers and, frequently, the selling of star players.In recent years, the rapper Lil B has made a name for himself in the sports realm with his curses — most notably on James Harden of the Houston Rockets — but it appears he has some new competition: the rapper Ja Rule.It all started on Saturday, when Ja Rule was performing at halftime of a game between the Minnesota Timberwolves and the host Milwaukee Bucks.The performance came on the 17th anniversary of Ja Rule’s collaboration with Ashanti, “Always Be On Time,” hitting No. 1 on Billboard’s Hot 100. But the show came under criticism immediately because of a somewhat misleading video of the crowd reaction and another one showing an unexpected guest: Giannis Antetokounmpo, the Bucks’ star forward, who came out to begin warming up for the second half while Ja Rule was still performing on the court along with a group of dancers.The rapper initially shrugged off the criticism, but his tone changed when the Timberwolves decided to mock the performance on social media. In a post to Twitter, the team said “We too were hustled, scammed, bamboozled, hood winked, lead astray!!!” The post was a reference to an earlier post by Ja Rule about his role in the ill-fated Fyre Festival, a luxury music event in the Bahamas that failed spectacularly in 2017. The rapper was not amused.The potential effects of this particular curse are unclear, though. The Timberwolves have existed as a franchise for 30 seasons and not only have not won a championship, but they have only made it out of the first round of the playoffs once — in 2004. They are 28-31, putting them just outside legitimate playoff contention, and the notion that Karl-Anthony Towns is departing anytime soon — as Ja Rule suggested with “AND KAT IS LEAVING!!!” — seems unlikely, as he has signed a five-year contract extension that kicks in next year and guarantees him nearly $160 million.Of course, logic does not have to play a role in sports curses. The Chicago Cubs endured the so-called Curse of the Billy Goat for more than 70 years after the team asked the owner of the Billy Goat Tavern, William Sianis, to leave a game because his goat was bothering fans. That the team had not won a World Series in more than 30 years before the episode was treated as mostly irrelevant. Other popular curses have included one in which the athletes endorsing Campbell’s Chunky Soup seemed to become injured at an extraordinary rate. Another claimed that athletes had their performance fall off after appearing on the cover of Sports Illustrated.The most famous, of course, is the Curse of the Bambino, which doomed the Boston Red Sox to lose after selling Babe Ruth to the Yankees in December 1919. The jinx is credited by some with keeping the Red Sox from winning a World Series for 86 years, despite the first year of that stretch coming before the team sold Ruth, and the fact that the curse was barely mentioned in popular culture before George Vecsey wrote a column about it for The New York Times in 1986. Dan Shaughnessy of the Boston Globe also wrote a book in 1990 that popularized the phrase.At the very least, the talk of Ja Rule’s curse was good news for Lil B, who spent part of the weekend trending on Twitter. He celebrated by retweeting various people saying Ja Rule was simply stealing a tactic that Lil B had already perfected.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFor Dwyane Wade's final NBA game, where else would his so-called Banana Boat Crew members be but on hand to see it?Wade ended his 16-year career with a bang Wednesday night, producing his fifth career triple-double as he amassed 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in the Miami Heat's 113-94 loss to the Brooklyn Nets.Sitting courtside to watch Wade in his final NBA game were his longtime friends and fellow NBA stars LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony.Of course they would be there, James said during the game. James was shut down for several of the Lakers' final games and Paul's Houston Rockets played their final regular-season game Tuesday night. Anthony did not sign with another NBA team after his release from the Chicago Bulls this season after he was traded by the Rockets."Listen, we all started this journey together," James told Fox Sports Southeast. "Obviously CP came into the league a couple years after us, but we have a brotherhood that is just so much more than basketball. CP played last night, we had our last regular-season game last night, and Melo is right here in New York, so we kind of made the plan and made the decision to come up here."The friends often travel together during the summer and picked up the Banana Boat Crew moniker after photos of them riding in one circulated on social media in 2016.James, who won two NBA titles with Wade in Miami, two of the three Wade won altogether, was asked about favorite memories of his friendship with Wade. James said a good answer to that would take a while."I mean, we'd be here all night talking. We'd be here all night talking about the best memories, or the most fond memories I have of D-Wade."The plane rides, the bus rides, the hotels when we get to the city we'd go to the hotel room and just chop it up, the dinners we had on the road, everything we did was always genuine. (There was) always love, and we always wanted the best for one another, no matter the good or the bad."I will say the most founding part was when we lost (to Dallas in 2011). Because, without '11, there's no (2013), no (2012 championship) banners hanging up in (AmericanAirlines Arena). That's what made us. That's what made our team."It's been an unbelievable journey for my guy, and I'm happy to be here for the last little part of the road before the train comes to a stop."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLeBron James, sidelined since Dec. 25 with a groin strain, will remain out until at least next week, the Los Angeles Lakers announced Wednesday. The team said in a statement that James did not travel with the Lakers on their current road trip for games against the Oklahoma City Thunder on Thursday and the Houston Rockets on Saturday.The Lakers have struggled without James — and without Rajon Rondo, their backup point guard, who was also injured in the Lakers’ road win over the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day. Entering Thursday, the Lakers had gone 4-7 without those two players and were tied with the Sacramento Kings for eighth place in the Western Conference standings.[On Pro Basketball: The Warriors Prepare to Add Another Star: DeMarcus Cousins]After their current trip, the Lakers will return home to play the Warriors on Monday — which, incidentally, is slated to be Game 2 of the Warriors’ well-publicized DeMarcus Cousins experiment as he returns from surgery on his Achilles’ tendon — but it is highly unlikely that James will be available. The Lakers said in their statement that James “has been cleared to return to practice commencing next week, and progress toward a return to game play thereafter.”James, 34, had been fairly indestructible thus far in his career. He appeared in all 82 regular-season games for the Cleveland Cavaliers last season. But while the Lakers initially listed James as “day to day” after he underwent a magnetic resonance imaging exam last month, the team has been handling him — and his eventual return — with caution.James was playing some of the best basketball of his career before he got hurt, averaging 27.3 points, 8.3 rebounds and 7.1 assists a game. A four-time N.B.A. most valuable player, he is in the first year of a four-year contract worth $154 million.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherHere’s a fact that is pretty obvious. When the point spread on a game is big, the favorite usually wins.In the 39 N.B.A. games since 2003 with a spread of 18 or higher, the favorite won them all, according to the Teamrankings.com database.It wasn’t quite an 18-point spread when the Golden State Warriors faced the Phoenix Suns on Sunday night, but it was close. Depending on where you gamble, the Warriors were favored by 16 to 17 points. Games in that range are still won by the favorites 97 percent of the time.Few should have been surprised by the big line on Sunday. The Suns are bad, going into the game with a record of 15-52, worse than anyone but the Knicks. And the Warriors are the Warriors. Not only that, but the game was being played at Golden State.The chance of an upset had shrunk from microscopic to infinitesimal at the 2:58 mark of the first quarter when the Warriors led by 16 points. A ho-hum blowout seemed to be in the offing.The Suns won the game.Devin Booker had 37 points and 11 assists in the shocking victory. “We came in, we fought, we were down 16,” forward Kelly Oubre Jr. told The Arizona Republic. “We still fought. We came up with a big win against the best team in the N.B.A.”The Suns are actually on a bit of a roll, having won five of their last seven. Don’t start checking the playoff race though: Those wins came immediately after a franchise-worst 17-game losing streak.And cynical Suns fans don’t have to worry either. The team is still three games away from slipping out of the bottom three, the teams that have an equal chance of nabbing the No. 1 pick in the draft, probably Zion Williamson of Duke.It was the first Suns win over the Warriors since November 2014. That was 18 straight games of futility against Golden State, the longest active losing streak by one team against another.Klay Thompson of the Warriors (10-for-22 for 28 points) had a curious take afterward, pointing a finger at the home fans. “I expect our crowd to be a little more into it,” he said. “At least you could stand up or something when we make a good play, especially at the beginning. We need that energy, especially at this time of year. Its hard to conjure up energy every single night.”The Warriors, who have the third best record in the league but are still the heavy championship favorites, had better get some energy in a hurry. They now go on a four-game road trip with a much tougher lineup of foes, starting with the Houston Rockets and Oklahoma City Thunder. Their top seed in the West — they are currently a game and a half ahead of the Denver Nuggets — could be under threat.The Suns will miss the playoffs for the ninth straight year (the second longest streak after the Kings). But they will always have the night they won as 17-point underdogs. Outright.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHere are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaATLANTA — Kyle Kuzma had his first interaction with LeBron James a little more than a year ago, when Kuzma was a first-year forward with the Los Angeles Lakers and James was a few months from dragging the Cleveland Cavaliers to another appearance in the N.B.A. finals. Kuzma had reached out by phone, hoping for some tips.“Just wanted to see how one of the greats takes care of his body and has so much longevity,” Kuzma recalled this week in an interview. “Everybody wants to play basketball for as long as possible.”So much has changed since that initial conversation. Kuzma and James are teammates now, and Kuzma is experiencing the unique challenges that come with playing alongside one of the game’s behemoths. At the same time, James’s body finally betrayed him this season, which has only heightened the sense of urgency within the organization: The Lakers, who have missed the playoffs for five years running, are not in position for a patient rebuild.James, at 34, may still be in his prime, but the stakes are already high for a franchise that desperately wants to maximize his time in Los Angeles. And while neither James nor Lakers management has shown much enthusiasm for coaxing along a young core — the Lakers tried to ship half the roster to New Orleans last week — they are stuck in this together. James was supposed to be the savior of a flagship franchise gone astray; salvaging the final months of this year would be a key indicator that he still wields that type of power.“We have to approach the rest of the season just like you would during the playoffs,” Kuzma said.As Kuzma recalled his talk with James, he had no way of knowing that the Lakers were mere hours from suffering one final implosion before the N.B.A. All-Star break — a 117-113 loss to the Atlanta Hawks that left the team with a losing record and ample opportunity for soul searching.“It’s time for us to get away and reflect a little bit about where we are as a group,” Coach Luke Walton said. “I think this first part of the season, we’ve gone through a lot of adversity. And we’re probably not where we want to be, but we’re still close enough.”Close enough, that is, for vying for a spot in the playoffs, which was both an indication of the team’s modest goals and its sad reality. At 28-29, the Lakers are in 10th place in the Western Conference standings. It is unfamiliar territory for James, who has not been on a losing team this late in a season since he was a first-year forward with the Cavaliers.“But with LeBron on your team, anything is possible,” said Mychal Thompson, a power forward for the Showtime-era Lakers and an analyst for the team’s radio broadcasts. “I mean, look at some of the teams he’s taken to the finals — including last season. He’s capable of doing great things if you just get on board and run with him.”The Lakers, though, seem fragile after nearly five months of drama — all of it stemming directly or indirectly from the $154 million deal that James signed to join the team last summer. The pressure was on from the start, and little has gone according to plan.“There’s been more noise this year,” Walton said, “but that was to be expected with the moves in the off-season. That was something to be anticipated.”Where to begin? Brandon Ingram and Rajon Rondo were suspended for trying to brawl with the Houston Rockets two games into the season. Magic Johnson, the team’s outspoken president of basketball operations, chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting for the team’s slow start, igniting lasting questions about Walton’s job security. Nearly every player on the roster has been injured, and that includes James, who missed 17 games with a strained groin.And lest we forget: Last week, Johnson and General Manager Rob Pelinka tried to trade away nearly half the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans for Anthony Davis, who, before the start of the season, hired the same agent who represents James. It was the clearest sign yet that Johnson is willing to attempt the very boldest moves — no matter the residual damage.Consider that the Lakers, amid their ultimately fruitless effort to pry Davis away from the Pelicans, lost by 42 points to the Indiana Pacers. And with rumors of which Lakers would be traded swirling through social media, it was difficult to find arguments in their defense — even from James himself.Kuzma, who was offered up as one of the pieces in a potential deal, said it had been difficult to drown out the noise.“It’s definitely tough,” he said, “because this generation, you’re always on your phone, always on social media, always seeing it somewhere on TV.”But the trade deadline passed, and the roster more or less remained intact. There had been a sense that a surprising win against the Boston Celtics on Feb. 7 would galvanize the team in the wake of so much uncertainty. And even after losing to the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, the Lakers still had a chance to build some momentum against the Hawks on Tuesday.Before the game, James appeared to be in an upbeat mood. In the locker room, he knelt on a giant inflatable ball as he worked on some core-strengthening exercises. He crooned the lyrics to “Plug Walk” by the hip-hop artist Rich the Kid. He made small talk with Ingram. It was all vintage James.About three hours later, once the Lakers had punctuated their loss with a turnover, James made a beeline off the court and into the tunnel. He was practically steaming. He had finished with his fifth triple-double of the season — 28 points, 16 assists, 11 rebounds — but the Lakers’ defense was as porous as a coffee filter, and the result was just as messy.“I can throw that game in the trash,” James said.In a three-minute postgame session with reporters, Kuzma mentioned the concept of “fun” five times — specifically, the notion that the Lakers were not having much of it.“A lot of times we’re out there with sad faces, very focused faces,” Kuzma said. “But I think we’re at our best when we’re having fun.”Fun may not be the primary objective for James, and the psychic effects of the loss are sure to linger until at least Feb. 21, when their season will resume after the All-Star break with a home game against the Houston Rockets. For now, though, the best thing for these players may be to be away from each other for a while, which was one of Walton’s suggestions before they parted for the break.“Spend some time by yourself,” he said, and added: “I think we’ve got a group that will be ready by the time we get back.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. on Tuesday fined Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans $50,000 because his agent, Rich Paul, had gone public with a trade request.Davis was hit with the fine after Paul gave multiple interviews on Monday saying that the All-Star big man wanted to be traded and would decline a contract extension for an estimated $240 million that New Orleans was planning to offer in July, at the first permissible moment.Paul’s comments violated “a collectively bargained rule prohibiting players or their representatives from making public trade demands,” the league said in a statement announcing the fine.The league described Paul’s comments as an “intentional effort to undermine the contractual relationship between Davis and the Pelicans.”Paul declined to comment on Tuesday. Davis refused to speak to reporters before New Orleans’s game on Tuesday night against the Houston Rockets.In another high-profile case of a player’s trade request this season, Jimmy Butler was not fined after pressing to be dealt from the Minnesota Timberwolves in September, because neither Butler nor his agent, Bernie Lee, openly discussed Butler’s wishes with the news media. The Timberwolves ultimately traded Butler to the Philadelphia 76ers on Nov. 10.But in a subsequent example, Cleveland’s J. R. Smith — who is also represented by Paul — dodged a fine after he publicly requested a trade in November. Smith was sent away from the Cavaliers in a mutual decision between the team and Paul to allow Cleveland to try to find a new home for Smith.The Los Angeles Lakers are at the forefront of teams trying to persuade the Pelicans to surrender Davis before the Feb. 7 trade deadline.The Knicks are also determined to establish themselves as a factor in the bidding for Davis, according to a person with knowledge of the team’s plans. The Knicks, though, realize that they might not be able to make their bid for Davis until May, when the order for the top of the June draft is set, according to the person, who was not authorized to discuss the situation publicly.Barring a home-run offer before next week’s deadline, the Pelicans are widely expected by rival teams to keep Davis for the short term and wait until closer to the draft to make a deal, in hopes of broadening their trade options.The Boston Celtics, regarded for some time as the Lakers’ foremost challenger in the long-anticipated trade sweepstakes for Davis, are ineligible to acquire Davis via trade while the All-Star guard Kyrie Irving is on Boston’s roster. League rules preclude one team from having two players on the designated rookie scale contract extensions possessed by both Davis and Irving.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressThe Nets were all business on Sunday. They started fast. They closed hard. And they refused to let anything, even a frequent nemesis, block their playoff path.Instead, the Nets beat Indiana at its own physical game and earned their first playoff berth in four years with a 108-96 victory on the road — though the muted locker room celebration made it hard to tell if players were more relieved or excited that the drought was over.“It means a lot, obviously to exceed expectations for a lot of us in here, to see how far we’ve come,” Joe Harris said after scoring 18 of his 19 points in the decisive first half. “It means a ton. Hopefully, it’s a sign of things to come for this organization.”After starting the season 8-18, the Nets (41-40) fought back to clinch their first nonlosing record in four years and can make it a winning season by beating Miami in Wednesday’s regular-season finale. They have the same record as Orlando; the Nets will finish sixth and the Magic seventh with a win or an Orlando loss. The Nets will be no worse than seventh.“There was another level of focus, another level of being locked in,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “They wanted it so bad, there was an extra energy there in these past few games.”The Nets, who got 20 points from D’Angelo Russell and 18 from Caris LeVert, ended a nine-game losing streak against the Pacers and a seven-game losing streak in Indianapolis that dated to March 2015.Domantas Sabonis had 17 points and 12 rebounds for Indiana, which has lost two straight at home and five of seven over all, locking the Pacers into the No. 5 seed in the East.“They were playing for something and they went out and showed it,” the Pacers’ Myles Turner said of the Nets.KNICKS 113, WIZARDS 110 Mario Hezonja scored a career-high 30 points and made the go-ahead 3-pointer with 44 seconds left, and the Knicks beat Washington at Madison Square Garden for the first time in nine games over six years.Luke Kornet added 17 points and Kevin Knox had 16 for the Knicks (16-64), who would have tied the franchise record for losses had they not rallied from a 10-point deficit after three quarters.“There’s no quitters in this locker room, in this organization, and we’re just showing we have a great chemistry going around and it resulted in a win,” Hezonja said. “So we’re not paying attention to standings or whatever it is. We just treat it as a development year and hopefully it results in something big next year.”The Knicks have to win their last two games to avoid at least matching their 17-65 record under Derek Fisher in 2014-15.HORNETS 104, PISTONS 91 Kemba Walker scored 20 of his 31 points in the first half to help Charlotte win at Detroit.The Hornets won their third in a row to keep their East playoff hopes alive. Charlotte and Miami are tied for ninth, a game behind Detroit. All three teams have two games left.RAPTORS 117, HEAT 109 Pascal Siakam had 23 points and 10 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard scored 22 points, and host Toronto won in overtime, further denting Miami’s fading playoff hopes.MAGIC 116, CELTICS 108 Terrence Ross had 26 points, Nikola Vucevic added 25 points and 12 rebounds, and Orlando rallied at Boston to clinch its first playoff berth in seven years.WARRIORS 131, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 27 points as Golden State clinched the Western Conference’s top seed, beating Los Angeles in the Warriors’ final regular-season game at Oracle Arena.3-POINTER RECORD James Harden scored 30 points in just three quarters as the Houston Rockets broke their N.B.A. record by making 27 3-pointers in a 149-113 home win against Phoenix. Eric Gordon led the way with eight 3-pointers, and Harden had five.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW ORLEANS — The Pelicans have reached an agreement in principle to make former Cleveland Cavaliers general manager David Griffin New Orleans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, three people familiar with the situation said Friday.The people spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because contract negotiations are ongoing and no announcement has been made.Griffin will take over for former Pelicans general manger Dell Demps, who was fired in the middle of his ninth season with the club — a few weeks after All-Star Anthony Davis' trade request in late January.Griffin's agreement to join New Orleans, which was first reported by ESPN, puts him at the center of the club's effort to find the best deal for Davis. Griffin also could decide the fate of Pelicans coach Alvin Gentry, who has two years left on his contract.The 45-year-old Griffin was the Cavaliers' GM from 2014 to 2017, during which LeBron James returned from Miami to Cleveland and the Cavs won an NBA title. The highlights of his tenure included a trade that brought star power forward Kevin Love to the Cavs. But Griffin's contract was not renewed after the 2016-17 season and James joined the Los Angele Lakers in free agency a year later. Griffin also worked in the Phoenix Suns' front office from 1993 until 2009, a stint that overlapped with Gentry's time as both a Suns assistant and head coach.Griffin was among six people interviewed by the Pelicans to replace Demps, including interim general manager Danny Ferry, Golden State assistant GM Larry Harris, Brooklyn Nets assistant GM Trajan Langon, Houston Rockets assistant GM Gersson Rosas and interim Washington president of basketball operations Tommy Sheppard.Now Griffin will attempt to transform a franchise that went 33-49 this season and has slightly better than a 25 percent chance of landing a top four pick in the NBA draft lottery on May 14.Trading Davis also could fetch a high draft choice, if Griffin chooses to go that route.Gentry has a regular-season record of 145-183 with one playoff appearance last season and one playoff series victory — a sweep of Portland before losing in five games to eventual champion Golden State.Although the Pelicans struggled this season, Gentry was commended by his players for his professionalism amid difficult circumstances."He's kind of been the guy who has let us grow," said Pelicans guard Jrue Holiday, who is coming off the best season of his 10-year NBA career. "I know he has for sure let me grow. He's given me responsibility ... and when he saw me succeed in it, he asked for more."Sometimes there's coaches that you kind of feel like they're holding you back as a player and kind of restrict you, but I feel like he kind of just lets you go and figure it out yourself," Holiday said earlier this week. "He's always been like a partner instead of like a dictator, and I feel like for professionals like ourselves and the guys in the locker room, we really respect that."Davis, who averaged 25.9 points, 12 rebounds and 2.4 blocks in 56 games, made his trade demand with 32 games left in the season and wound up missing 17 of those games, sometimes for rest and at other times was listed as out with back spasms, including for the final seven games.When he did play, it was rarely for much more than 20 minutes a game.The Pelicans will have a number of other pressing roster matters as well.Starting forward Julius Randle and starting point guard Elfrid Payton both will be free agents. Randle is coming off of the best season of his career — averaging 21.4 points and 8.7 rebounds. He credited the Pelicans with fostering his development and said he's open to coming back.Payton, who is from the New Orleans area, said playing in his hometown exceeded expectations and that he would like to be back. Payton missed much of the season with injuries, but also put together a historically significant string of five straight triple-doubles this spring.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTake a look at the five highest-scoring seasons in NBA history.— Wilt Chamberlain scored 4,029 points in 1961-62.— Chamberlain scored 3,586 in 1962-63.— Michael Jordan scored 3,041 points in 1986-87.— Chamberlain scored 3,033 in 1960-61.— Chamberlain scored 2,948 points in 1963-64.There they are. The five best seasons in terms of points that the NBA has ever seen. And those five seasons all have something in common — when they were over, someone not named Chamberlain or Jordan was the MVP.What James Harden did this season for the Houston Rockets was scintillating. He scored 50 or more points nine times. He scored 61 twice. He scored at least 30 points in 32 consecutive games, a stretch that lasted more than two months. He will finish this season with the seventh-highest scoring average in NBA history and win the scoring title by more than 8 points per game — a ridiculous margin.He wins Most Voluminous Points.But maybe not the Most Valuable Player.There are some tremendous individual races in the NBA this season, with a slew of deserving candidates for coach of the year, a rather unexpected two-person race for rookie of the year, and the annual befuddlement about who should win defensive player of the year. The ballot that voters will agonize over most, in some cases, will be the one for MVP.Is it Harden, for the second straight year?Or is it Milwaukee's Giannis Antetokounmpo?Compelling cases can be made either way. Harden carried the Rockets and became the most unguardable player in the league. Antetokounmpo took a team that finished seventh in the East last year and lifted it to the No. 1 overall seed in the NBA, continuing his meteoric rise toward total superstardom.Harden is the better scorer, Antetokounmpo the more accurate shooter. Harden is the better ballhandler and passer, Antetokounmpo the better rebounder and defender. Take Antetokounmpo off the Bucks, and they'd be lucky to make the playoffs. Take Harden off the Rockets, and they'd be lucky to make the playoffs.The biggest argument for Harden is the scoring. It has been sensational, without question.But there is precedent, as Chamberlain and Jordan learned. Even a gazillion points doesn't guarantee anyone the Maurice Podoloff Trophy.When these playoffs are over and the trophy is finally handed out in late June, Harden will find out if scoring was enough to win the vote this time.It is tradition in this space to end the regular season by having AP Basketball Writers Brian Mahoney and Tim Reynolds reveal their choices for certain awards and predict what will happen in the playoffs.Their selections:MVPMahoney: Antetokounmpo. Tough to demote Harden when he was even more valuable this season than last, but can't ignore a guy with the Greek Freak's stats on the surprise winningest team in the league.Reynolds: Antetokounmpo. He gets the nod over Harden because the Bucks enjoyed a level of success that few expected, and he's why.MOST IMPROVED PLAYERMahoney: D'Angelo Russell, Brooklyn. Didn't just have a great season. He saved one for a Nets team that was going nowhere.Reynolds: Pascal Siakam, Toronto. The Raptors were 14-3 when he had a double-double, and he more than doubled his scoring average.COACH OF THE YEARMahoney: Mike Budenholzer, Milwaukee. Oversaw improvements across the board to turn a team with playoff aspirations into one with championship aspirations.Reynolds: Doc Rivers, LA Clippers. Hard call over Budenholzer. Steve Kerr, Nick Nurse, Steve Clifford, Michael Malone and Kenny Atkinson also deserving.ROOKIE OF THE YEARMahoney: Luka Doncic, Dallas. Not many players become must-see TV before they even turn 20.Reynolds: Luka Doncic, Dallas. Trae Young came on like gangbusters at the end of the year, but Doncic was better from start to finish.EASTERN CONFERENCE CHAMPIONMahoney: Milwaukee. The Bucks do so many things well that they can find a way even when things get tougher.Reynolds: Toronto. Milwaukee is built for the long haul and might not be ready — yet. But for the Raptors, if not now, then when?WESTERN CONFERENCE CHAMPIONMahoney: Golden State. Still by far the best combination of talent and experience in the league.Reynolds: Golden State. If healthy, the Warriors are still the one to beat. And they want to send Oracle Arena out the right way.NBA CHAMPIONSMahoney: Warriors in 6.Reynolds: Warriors in 5.BOLD OFFSEASON PREDICTIONMahoney: The July 4 fireworks boom brightest in New York, where Kevin Durant is the centerpiece of a transformed Knicks team.Reynolds: If the Warriors win this title, and they should, expect the core to all come back and try to four-peat. Yes, including Durant.___Brian Mahoney is the AP Basketball Writer based in New York. Tim Reynolds is the AP Basketball Writer based in Miami.___Advertisement
Maybe they were never going to win a championship this season, even with LeBron James, but they were not supposed to be this bad. What happened?CreditCreditHarry How/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Marc SteinThe arrival of LeBron James as their latest in a succession of superstar imports was supposed to halt the longest period of suffering in the Los Angeles Lakers’ California history.What James and the Lakers have experienced instead will be remembered as the most disappointing season of James’s career — because it will extend a stubborn playoff drought that has flummoxed the N.B.A.’s most glamorous franchise.Not even James’s presence could prevent a sixth straight missed postseason for the new Lakers, who are mere days from being mathematically eliminated from the playoffs entering Sunday’s visit to Madison Square Garden to face the Knicks. The Lakers, remember, missed the playoffs only four times in their first 53 seasons after relocating from Minneapolis in the 1960-61 season.So much for Hollywood fairy tales.Perhaps expectations for this team were unrealistically high, given the modest quality of James’s supporting cast in Year 1, but his Lakerland debut was never supposed to veer this far off-script for a once-in-a-generation player. What follows is a breakdown of how things fell apart — in six stages.Without warning, on July 1, 2018, the first night of N.B.A. free agency, James announced through a 39-word news release that he was signing a four-year, $154 million contract with the Lakers.Yet the ensuing celebration did not last even 24 hours.On July 2, Golden State boldly swiped some of the Lakers’ thunder by signing the former All-Star big man DeMarcus Cousins to a bargain deal. The Lakers then spent the next week scouring the league for the best players willing to sign one-year contracts — thereby preserving salary-cap flexibility for the summer of 2019 and their planned pursuit of an All-Star sidekick for James.The problem: Magic Johnson and Rob Pelinka, the Lakers’ nascent front-office power duo, signed a slew of nonshooters and, shall we say, mercurial personalities who, as a group, prompted instant second-guessing.The Lakers countered the skepticism by insisting that playmakers and playoff-tested veterans, rather than shooting specialists who could open up space on the floor, would ease LeBron’s burden and potentially even match up well with the mighty Warriors — only to see their signees do little to hush the told-you-so crowd. JaVale McGee, the veteran center, initially exceeded expectations, but the quartet of Rajon Rondo, Lance Stephenson, Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Michael Beasley proved as collectively ineffective as feared.Perhaps we should have known that this was not going to be the usual LeBron season when a fight broke out between a number of Lakers and Houston Rockets in James’s first home game at Staples Center.And the tension never really let up.After just eight games — five of them losses — Johnson summoned Coach Luke Walton for a pointed lecture about the Lakers’ sluggish start. The team’s legendary point-guard-turned-team president never intended for the meeting or any details to leak to the news media, but they promptly did in the no-secrets world of the N.B.A.Johnson immediately tried to play down suggestions that Walton’s job was already in jeopardy, in an interview with The Los Angeles Times, but he would not go further than proclaiming that Walton was “going to finish the season, unless something drastic happens, which it won’t.”Walton is certainly not blameless in the Lakers’ struggles. His lineups, rotations and responsibility for L.A.’s worrisome drop to No. 22 leaguewide in offensive efficiency have routinely been questioned. Management, furthermore, is said to be dismayed by Walton’s refusal to hire a seasoned former head coach as his top assistant — something young coaches (Walton is 38) frequently do.Yet the public nature of the heat Walton took from his own front office made Johnson look impatient and, worse, ramped up the pressure on everyone in the Lakers’ locker room — especially the coach — before they even made it to Thanksgiving. With two years left on a five-year deal, Walton is widely expected to be shoved out of his toasty seat for good at season’s end.What can be classified as the best day of the Lakers’ season, if you only considered the box score, is also bound to be remembered as this season’s low point.The Lakers went to Oakland on Christmas Day for a game in the most anticipated television time slot on the regular-season calendar and throttled the two-time defending champion Warriors. The 127-101 rout capped an 18-9 surge that nudged L.A.’s record to 20-14, good for a promising fourth in the dauntingly deep Western Conference.But James strained his left groin as he stretched to retrieve a loose ball in the third quarter. The Lakers gradually pulled away without him — and James optimistically posted to Twitter the next day about how he “dodged a bullet,” with a #BackInNoTime hashtag — but the injury turned out to be the most serious he had ever sustained.James eventually missed 17 games. No previous injury had ever sidelined him longer than the eight games he lost to a back injury in 2014-15. The Lakers went 6-11 without James and, even accounting for all of their missteps before and after LeBron went down, can rightly point to suddenly losing their star as the biggest blow to the team’s playoff hopes.It remains unclear how #BackInNoTime turned into six weeks on the sideline for James. An inevitability given his age (34)? The byproduct of the Lakers playing at a much faster pace than LeBron’s Cleveland teams? A freak occurrence?Maybe it was a combination of all those factors.What’s clear, though, is that the Lakers’ overall poor health has consistently hurt them.The Lakers, for starters, are 6-15 since Jan. 19, when Lonzo Ball, who had begun to impress James as their starting point guard, sustained a serious ankle injury. And there’s more.Tyson Chandler, the veteran center who made such an impact defensively after joining the team Nov. 6, is dealing with a neck ailment. Josh Hart, the promising second-year guard, has been plagued by tendinitis in his left knee for months. And Brandon Ingram, the swingman with tantalizing potential as a scorer, missed several games with ankle and shoulder problems before he was ruled out for the rest of the season recently with deep venous thrombosis.In real time, only 11 days elapsed between New Orleans forward Anthony Davis’s trade request going public on Jan. 28 and the league’s Feb. 7 trade deadline. But that surely felt like an eternity for the Lakers’ quartet of starlets: Ingram, Ball, Hart and Kyle Kuzma.Especially since the fallout is continuing.From the minute James arrived in Hollywood, after the Lakers made unsuccessful trade runs at Paul George and Kawhi Leonard, it was known that the team would try to trade for Davis — which meant all four of L.A.’s top young players were destined to hear their names in trade speculation. Yet the leaguewide consensus was that Davis would not be made available until at least the 2019 off-season, theoretically giving the starlets an opportunity to build something with James — and maybe even change management’s mind about looking externally for LeBron’s superstar sidekick.But Davis’s trade request changed everything. Rich Paul, LeBron’s agent and longtime friend, became Davis’s agent in September and was widely perceived to have made the trade request on Davis’s behalf to get him to Los Angeles. A seemingly ceaseless stream of leaked Lakers offers thereafter irreparably fractured the locker room, no matter how hard Paul pushed back against that narrative.Nor can the team fully move on from the trade drama, because everyone knows the front office will be back on the phones with New Orleans soon, trying to beat out the Boston Celtics’ package for Davis once the Pelicans start fielding offers for him anew.A Feb. 12 road loss to the Atlanta Hawks was the Lakers’ fourth in five games entering the All-Star break and lowered their record to 28-29. James emerged from the break insisting that he would shift into playoff mode far earlier than normal — “It’s been activated,” LeBron promised — but the Lakers promptly lost road games to the Davis-less Pelicans and the draft-minded Memphis Grizzlies after a hope-building home win against the Houston Rockets.The season effectively ended March 2 in Phoenix, when the Lakers lost to a Suns team in the midst of a 1-18 funk. The defeat meant L.A. had fallen to five of the league’s six teams which currently have sub-.400 winning percentages (Chicago is the only exception). The loss was soon followed by announcements that Ball and Ingram would be held out of the Lakers’ remaining games — and that James’s minutes would be reduced.James was held out of Friday’s game against the Detroit Pistons via the increasingly popular leaguewide synonym for rest — “load management.” LeBron’s load, of course, is about to become lighter in April, May and June than anyone expected.These Lakers were never a lock to reach the playoffs in the loaded West, but the overwhelming majority of league observers and Las Vegas oddsmakers — who largely pegged them as a 48-win team — figured LeBron would find a way. He has instead absorbed criticism for spotty leadership and intermittent engagement with his new team as he prepares for life as a playoff spectator for the first time since his second N.B.A. season (2004-5).Last summer, when he was still preaching patience, Johnson did say that he would need two off-seasons to assemble a true contender even if the Lakers were fortunate enough to land LeBron. “Next summer, if nobody comes and I’m sitting here like this, then it’s a failure,” Magic said at the time.But spring has barely sprung — and next summer is already here for the Lakers and James. Sooner than they ever envisioned, Magic, Pelinka and Jeanie Buss, the Lakers’ owner, are on the clock to make moves that lead to a honeymoon that lasts.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressHOUSTON — The Utah Jazz tried to force the left-handed James Harden to his right to make things more difficult on him on Game 1 of their first-round playoff series against the Houston Rockets on Sunday night.Didn't matter much to Harden and the Rockets though. He still led the team in scoring and helped facilitate solid offensive nights from everyone else in the starting lineup in the lopsided win.Harden had 29 points and 10 assists to help the Rockets rout the Jazz 122-90 in the opener of the best-of-seven series.Houston's entire starting lineup had at least 10 points. Eric Gordon had 17, Clint Capela scored 16, Chris Paul added 14 and P.J. Tucker had 11."They throw something at him and they might get him a little bit and he figures it out and they don't get him anymore," coach Mike D'Antoni said about the defensive strategy on Harden. "He's so good offensively it makes me laugh. He's just so good I don't know what you do ... you're not stopping him. I don't care what you do."Harden wasn't surprised at Utah's defensive tactic."I've seen literally every defense you can possibly see," he said. "So it was just a matter of adjusting and continuing to communicate with the guys of what spots they needed to be in."The Rockets had a double-digit lead for most of the game, but the Jazz got within five points midway through the third quarter before Houston used a big run to pull away and sail to the victory."The third quarter we got some stops and we didn't get shots on the other end and that's tough to overcome," Jazz coach Quin Snyder said.It's the second consecutive year the teams have met in the postseason after the Rockets eliminated Utah in five games in the second round last season.Game 2 is Wednesday night in Houston.Houston was up by 15 in the fourth quarter before Harden, who had eight rebounds, scored six points in a 9-2 run that stretched the lead to 108-86 with four minutes left and both teams cleared their benches about a minute after that.Rudy Gobert had 22 points and 12 rebounds to lead the Jazz after not scoring more than 15 points in a game in the playoff series against the Rockets last season. Donovan Mitchell had 19 points, but did not have an assist as the Jazz went long stretches without scoring.Mitchell was disappointed with his assist-to-turnover ratio."No assists. Five turnovers. That's huge," he said. "You can't have no assists and five turnovers."Ricky Rubio started after missing four of the last five games of the regular season with a quadriceps injury. Rubio, who finished with 15 points, didn't play against Houston in the playoffs last season after injuring his hamstring in a first-round series win over the Oklahoma City Thunder.Houston had a 12-point lead entering the fourth quarter and an 8-0 spurt, with two 3-pointers from Danuel House, extended it to 95-75 with nine minutes remaining.The Rockets led by 17 when Harden re-entered the game about a minute later. Soon after he returned he found House behind the 3-point line in the corner and drove to the basket and finished with a one-handed slam.The Rockets were up by 15 at halftime, but Utah opened the second half with a 10-3 run, with six points from Gobert, to cut it to 62-54 with nine minutes left in the third.The Jazz got within five with a shot from Mitchell later in the third, before the Rockets scored next 10 points, with a 3 from Gordon and a three-point play from Harden, to make it 76-61 with about four minutes left in the quarter.Mitchell ended a Utah scoring drought of about 4 ½ minutes after that with a 3-pointer, but Harden hit a 3 seconds later to leave the Rockets up 79-64.Utah cut into the lead a bit after that and trailed 83-71 after three.TIP-INSJazz: Derrick Favors had 13 points. ... Utah went 7 for 27 on 3s. ... The Jazz had 18 turnovers. ... Jae Crowder scored nine points off the bench.Rockets: D'Antoni was back on the sideline after missing Houston's last three regular-season games with an intestinal virus. ... Hall of Famer and former Rocket Hakeem Olajuwon watched the game from a courtside seat. ... Houston made 15 3-pointers, led by four from Harden.CAPELA'S HEALTHCapela played despite dealing with an upper respiratory infection that kept him out of practice two days this week. Houston's center said he still wasn't feeling great and hopes he's better by Wednesday."It was hard," he said. "I would say it was probably my toughest game ... it felt kind of hard to breathe like I'm used to."THEY SAID ITMitchell on moving on after the blowout loss: "Honestly we could have won this game by 90 or lost this game by 90 ... for us it's just about making adjustments and not overreacting to what happened."UP NEXTAfter Game 2 on Wednesday the series moves to Utah for Game 3 on Saturday and Game 4 on April 22.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDeMarcus Cousins is scheduled to make his long-anticipated debut with the Golden State Warriors during the team’s Los Angeles road trip later this month, according to two people with knowledge of the team’s plans.The Warriors will play the Clippers on Jan. 18 and the Lakers on Jan. 21, with Cousins expected to make his return from a torn Achilles’ tendon he sustained in January 2018 in one of those two games, according to the people, who were not authorized to discuss the situation publicly.After Golden State’s 122-95 rout of the Knicks on Tuesday night, Warriors Coach Steve Kerr would not make any promises but acknowledged that activating Cousins for either Jan. 18 or Jan. 21 is “definitely the range.”“It’s not as simple as, ‘That’s the game’ — it’s somewhere in that neighborhood,” Kerr said. “Now that we are getting closer, like I told you guys yesterday, he’s made some big strides the last week or two, conditioning-wise.”Cousins was in the midst of his best professional season with the New Orleans Pelicans last Jan. 26, when he tore his left Achilles late in a victory over the Houston Rockets.The injury cost Cousins his first career trip to the playoffs after six and a half fruitless seasons with the Sacramento Kings and also led to him signing a one-year, $5.3 million contract with the Warriors in July. The All-Star center found his options limited in free agency amid concerns about how he would recover from such a severe setback.The Warriors have been eager to see Cousins on the floor to finally address what has been one of the league’s most frequently asked questions since they signed him: How will Cousins find a niche in Golden State’s offense alongside four fellow All-Stars in Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green?“He’s a great basketball player in terms of just feel and things like that,” Curry told reporters Tuesday night. “There’s going to be some fun moments out there.“I think with the collective IQ we have in our locker room and just understanding the unselfishness around what we do that we’ll be able to figure it out hopefully quickly. But it’s going to be an adjustment for sure.”Despite a well-chronicled lack of size on its roster, Golden State has been cautious in bringing Cousins back from what has historically been one of the most unforgiving injuries for basketball players. The Warriors have never had the luxury of fielding an offensive-minded center during their run of three championships over the past four years, but the position has been even more problematic this season after the third-year big man Damian Jones, having been moved into an expanded role, suffered a season-ending shoulder injury. Jordan Bell, meanwhile, has struggled to establish a spot in Kerr’s rotation.“It’s exciting,” Thompson said of Cousins’s coming debut. “I know our fan base is excited, the N.B.A. is excited. I can’t wait to integrate him into our team. He adds a whole new dimension, especially on the block. He’s such a handful down there and with his ability to playmake.”When Cousins does finally make it onto the court, Golden State will become the first team since the Boston Celtics in 1975-76 to be able to put five All-Stars from the previous season on the court. The Celtics did it that season with a lineup of Jo Jo White, Charlie Scott, Dave Cowens, Paul Silas and John Havlicek.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. said Monday that it required the New Orleans Pelicans to play Anthony Davis, their disgruntled All-Star, after he was not traded before last week’s trade deadline because of “league rules governing competitive integrity.”The Pelicans initially planned to sit Davis for the rest of the season once they responded to his request to be traded by deciding to keep him beyond Thursday’s deadline, according to two people familiar with New Orleans’ stance who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.But the league office said it intervened because of its rules about resting healthy players, which are in place largely to prevent teams from weakening their rosters intentionally to incur losses that could improve their draft position in June. The practice is known as “tanking.”The Pelicans maintain that they were trying to protect Davis from a serious injury during the final 28 regular-season games before the off-season, when they do intend to trade him after they field offers from a wider base of teams than those who made competitive offers last week, according to the people.Mike Bass, an N.B.A. spokesman, said Monday that “the Pelicans were advised that the team had not identified a proper basis” to hold Davis out of games.“League rules governing competitive integrity therefore require that he be permitted to play,” Bass said.Bass also denied an ESPN report from last week that said the Pelicans were threatened by the league with per-game fines of $100,000 if they sat Davis when he wanted to play.[With Anthony Davis on His Way Out, New Orleans Tries to Plot Its Path]Davis, who can become a free agent in July 2020, requested a trade from the Pelicans on Jan. 28 but did not insist that he be traded before the deadline, The Times reported last week. As part of the trade request, Davis also told the Pelicans that he intended to decline their offer of a $240 million contract extension in July and that the Los Angeles Lakers and the Knicks were the two teams he was most open to signing a long-term deal with.Upon learning of New Orleans’ plans to sit Davis after the Pelicans and Lakers broke off days of contentious trade talks, Davis’s agent, Rich Paul, lobbied league officials on Davis’s behalf to clear him to play, according to the people.Both Paul and Michele Roberts, head of the N.B.A. Players Association, declined to comment Monday.“Anthony Davis will play the remainder of the 2018-19 season for the New Orleans Pelicans,” New Orleans General Manager Dell Demps said in a statement last week. “A number of factors contributed to this decision. Ultimately Anthony made it clear to us that he wants to play and gives our team the best opportunity to win games. Moreover the Pelicans want to preserve the integrity of the game and align our organization with N.B.A. policies. We believe Anthony playing upholds the values that are in the best interest of the N.B.A. and its fans. We look forward to seeing Anthony in a Pelicans uniform soon.”Davis has since appeared in two games with New Orleans, averaging 28.5 points and 12.5 rebounds in 29.5 minutes per game in a win (over Minnesota) and a defeat (in Memphis).The N.B.A. has been increasingly vigilant in sanctioning teams for resting healthy players since an incident in November 2012, when the San Antonio Spurs were fined $250,000 for sending Tim Duncan, Tony Parker, Manu Ginobili and Danny Green home with virtually no notice before a nationally televised game in Miami.This season, though, several players with smaller profiles than Davis have been shelved by their teams in anticipation of a trade without any public pushback from the N.B.A.Like Davis, Chandler Parsons of Memphis and Carmelo Anthony, the former Houston Rocket, wanted to play but were benched for months. Parsons has since rejoined the Grizzlies after they were unable to find a new home for him via trade before the deadline; Anthony spent more than two months in exile before the Rockets traded him to the Chicago Bulls on Jan. 21. Anthony became a free agent on Feb. 3 after the Bulls released him and he cleared waivers.Cleveland’s J.R. Smith and Zach Randolph, the former Sacramento King who was traded to Dallas last week, have also been inactive for long spells this season — but both by mutual agreement with their teams.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressHOUSTON — James Harden and the Houston Rockets didn't talk about their defeat at home by the Utah Jazz in the second game of their second-round playoff series last season before Game 2 of their first-round matchup on Wednesday night.The Beard and his teammates were certainly thinking about it though.Harden put on an MVP performance with 32 points, 13 rebounds and 10 assists to lead the Rockets to a second straight rout of the Utah Jazz, 118-98, for a 2-0 lead in the best-of-seven series.The Rockets also won Game 1 of last year's series easily before losing that second game in Houston. They ended up winning the series in five games, but talked about the importance of maintaining focus after their 32-point win in Game 1 this season to avoid another such letdown.It was clear early that they wouldn't have that problem this time around."It was important for us to come out aggressive," Harden said. "I think it was our defensive effort."Harden, who recorded his third career playoff triple-double, had 25 points by halftime in a game the Jazz were all but out of after the first two quarters.Game 3 is Saturday night in Utah.Harden controlled the game from the start as the Rockets raced out to a 39-19 lead after a first quarter where he scored just two points fewer than the Jazz."What he did in that first quarter was ridiculous," coach Mike D'Antoni said. "Just dicing everybody up. When he gets it rolling nobody's better."Houston made 6 of 13 3-pointers in the first and Utah hit just one of its 14 tries. The Rockets didn't let up in the second quarter and had pushed their advantage to 70-44 at halftime.Ricky Rubio was the man tasked with guarding him most of the night."He's hard but I'm not going to quit," he said. "He's one of the best scorers of all time and we're going to keep trying to find ways to make his scoring hard."The Jazz got 17 points each from Rubio and Royce O'Neale. Second-year star Donovan Mitchell vowed to do more after scoring 19 points in Game 1, finishing with five turnovers and no assists. He did have more assists, dishing out six, but managed just 11 points on 5-of-19 shooting and had four turnovers as the Jazz head home needing to turn things around quickly to avoid a series that looks to be headed for a sweep."We didn't show up," Mitchell said. "Simply put. And that can't happen."Houston's big early lead was also helped by 4-of-5 3-point shooting in the first half by P.J. Tucker and 16 points from Eric Gordon, who made three 3-pointers. Gordon didn't score after halftime and Tucker added four points.The Rockets had a 15-point lead midway through the second quarter when Harden made a 3-pointer, and on the next possession banked in another one as he was knocked to the court on a foul by Thabo Sefolosha. Harden watched the ball go in as he sat on the court and did a little shimmy with his shoulders. The play drew a roar from the crowd and the video boards flashed to a fan holding a sign that read: 'unguardable.' before panning to former Rocket star and Hall of Famer Hakeem Olajuwon, who raised his arms and smiled.Harden missed the free throw but he'd still helped the Rockets push the lead to 52-31.The Jazz got within 17 on a tip-in by Jae Crowder with about four minutes left in the third, but Houston made the next seven points, highlighted by a 3 from Harden, to make it 90-66 about 90 seconds later.The Rockets were up by 28 entering the fourth quarter and had a 97-73 lead when Harden entered the game for the first time in the fourth quarter with eight minutes left. His 10th assist came with about 3 ½ minutes to go when he found a wide-open Kenneth Faried, who finished with a dunk to make it 107-87.TIP-INSJazz: Rudy Gobert had 11 points and 12 rebounds. ... Utah shot just 39.8 percent after shooting 39 percent in Game 1. ... Jazz finished 8 of 38 on 3-pointers. ... Derrick Favors scored 14 points and had 12 rebounds.Rockets: Houston, which had 17 3s, has made at least 15 3-pointers in 11 straight games. ... Clint Capela had seven points and 10 rebounds. ... Chris Paul added 17 points.REMEMBERING NIPSEYHarden wore a medallion with a picture of rapper and activist Nipsey Hussle, who was murdered last month, to Wednesday's game. He shared a heartfelt answer when asked why it's important to remember him."I'm just here because he's one of my close friends," Harden said. "This journey that I'm on is for him. It's plain and simple. That name Nip. Everybody knows that name now. So I'm just another person that's just helping that name live on."THEY SAID ITTucker on the team's focus: "When we do what we do, I don't think anybody can beat us. And that's a fact, I don't care. If we come out and communicate and when our guys get going and are aggressive, we're tough."ODDS AND ENDSHouston is 8-0 at home in the first round since D'Antoni took over for the 2016-17 season. ... The Jazz have lost eight of their last 10 playoff games on the road since 2017 including four of five at Houston. ... It's the first time the Rockets have won consecutive playoff games by 20 points or more.UP NEXTAfter Game 3 on Saturday, the series stays in Utah for Game 4 on Monday night.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Tyler Kepner and Kevin DraperThe best player in baseball is closing in on the richest contract in the history of North American sports. Mike Trout, the center fielder for the Los Angeles Angels, is finalizing a contract extension that will be worth about $430 million and keep him with the team through 2030, according to two people who were briefed on the deal but were not authorized to comment publicly.However the deal is calculated — either an additional $360 million over 10 years or the Angels’ total commitment of about $430 million for the next 12 years — Trout has eclipsed the previous record for guaranteed money: the 13-year, $330 million deal Bryce Harper signed this month with the Philadelphia Phillies.The extension, which was first reported by ESPN, would establish Trout as the highest-paid baseball player on an annual basis, topping the $34.4 million Zack Greinke is earning from the Arizona Diamondbacks on a six-year, $206.5 million contract signed in December 2015.[From 2017: Mike Trout, Baseball’s Best Without the Brand]While it is an enormous amount of money, even this record-breaking contract doesn’t necessarily bring Trout into the highest tier of overall income for professional athletes.While comparing contracts across sports and continents is an inherently difficult undertaking because of varied contractual structures, tax burdens, bonuses and ancillary benefits, it is clear that even with the monster deal Trout would fall well short of becoming the world’s highest paid athlete annually.The soccer superstar Lionel Messi, for example, is expected to earn more than 106 million euros (about $120 million) per year from Barcelona through 2021, an amount that could rise to 120 million euros if certain incentives are met. The boxer Canelo Álvarez will earn at least $73 million annually from a five-year deal with the streaming service DAZN.Trout, 27, also won’t have the highest annual salary in North American team sports. In the N.B.A., Stephen Curry of the Golden State Warriors is making $37.5 million this season, and the Houston Rockets’ James Harden will earn $42.3 million annually once his four-year, $169.3 million contract extension kicks in.The highest-paid N.F.L. player, Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers, earns a bit less than Trout is expected to: an average of $33.5 million from a four-year, $134 million contract (though only $98.7 million of that is guaranteed). Unlike Major League Baseball, the N.F.L. and N.B.A. have salary caps.Compared with superstars in other sports, Trout has a limited ability to earn money outside the game. Baseball players typically aren’t as well-known nationally or internationally as their counterparts in other major sports, and Trout’s lack of marketability has been lamented by M.L.B. Commissioner Rob Manfred.Trout does have a number of endorsement deals with companies including Rawlings and Nike, and in 2014 he became of the first baseball player since Ken Griffey Jr. to get a Nike signature cleat. But baseball players’ ability to move merchandise pales in comparison to that of a basketball player or a soccer player, and endorsement contracts reflect that.Trout earns an estimated $2.5 million from endorsements annually, according to Forbes. Kevin Durant’s endorsement deal with Nike alone is worth up to $300 million over 10 years, while Harden will earn $200 million over 13 years from Adidas. LeBron James of the N.B.A. and Cristiano Ronaldo, the Portuguese soccer star for Juventus, have lifetime deals with Nike that are rumored to be worth $1 billion each.While a handful of athletes earn more from their contracts annually than Trout, those individuals almost assuredly will not be doing so in 2030, the final year of Trout’s deal. N.B.A. contracts last a maximum of five years, and with a few exceptions, soccer contracts are rarely longer than that, either. Boxers typically earn their money fight to fight, while golf and tennis players simply claim a share of tournament prize money.But in 2030, no matter how Trout’s baseball career progresses, he will earn at least $36 million — a priceless long-term assurance.He has earned the payout by putting together seven astounding seasons to begin his career; the most similar players, production-wise, at his age, according to Baseball Reference, have been the Hall of Famers Frank Robinson, Ken Griffey Jr. and Mickey Mantle. Trout has won two American League Most Valuable Player Awards and been the runner-up four times. His career batting average is .307 and he is the majors’ active leader in on-base plus slugging percentage, at .990.But, adding to Trout’s lack of recognition and earning power, postseason success has eluded him. He has reached the playoffs just once, in 2014, when the Angels were swept by the Kansas City Royals in a division series. The possibility of Trout departing for a new team loomed after the 2020 season, when his six-year, $144.5 million contract was set to expire; Harper, for one, had said he would love for Trout to join him in Philadelphia.Trout still lives in his hometown, Millville, N.J., in the off-season, and is a die-hard Philadelphia Eagles fan. But the Angels had tried to impress upon Trout the benefits of keeping his work and home lives separate, and to sell him on the idea of being a one-team icon with a franchise with which he has thrived. And with a promise of an enormous paycheck — at least for on-field performance — the Angels put together a winning pitch.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaHOUSTON — DeMarcus Cousins used to watch soap operas with his grandmother when he was growing up. She would refer to them as her “stories,” he said, and “As the World Turns” was her favorite. Cousins could never fully relate to the absurd drama of his grandmother’s stories until this season, when he joined the Golden State Warriors.“Every episode it was something,” he said. “And that’s what this has turned into.”Cousins is sometimes an innocent bystander. (Consider the midseason beef between Kevin Durant and Draymond Green that stemmed from a late-game meltdown against the Los Angeles Clippers and bled into Durant’s impending free agency.) But sometimes Cousins is involved, even if it is not his choice. He was aware, for example, before Wednesday’s game against the Houston Rockets, that members of the news media and the general public were picking apart his defense and referring to him as a liability.“We all been in this business long enough to know how it goes,” said Cousins, a 6-foot-11 center. “And I’ve been around this team to know how things go around here. You’re always looking for something to make a story. I mean, I could care less. You all got to do your jobs, and I got to do mine.”For all the laments about Cousins’s vulnerability in pick-and-roll defensive situations, there is no denying his offensive impact when he is focused, and he was supremely focused against the Rockets on Wednesday night, collecting 27 points, 8 rebounds and 7 assists in a 106-104 victory that infused the team with some positive vibes.Scoring down low, passing out of the post, setting meaty screens — Cousins does things that the Warriors have seldom featured in their four-plus seasons of dominance.“For as long as we can remember, we haven’t had a guy we can just throw the ball to in the post and work around him,” Stephen Curry said.It is still a process, of course, both for the Warriors, who are working to incorporate another mammoth personality into their fold as they pursue a third straight championship, and for Cousins, a four-time All-Star who spent the first few months of the season building strength and working on his conditioning as he recovered from an Achilles’ tendon tear.Since Cousins made his season debut on Jan. 18, the Warriors are 15-7. But they had lost six of their last 10 games entering Wednesday, and the general mood of the team felt flat. Curry likened it to when Durant joined the Warriors in 2016, and the team spent the first two or three months of the season trying to find its rhythm.“There was a little sensitivity to how everybody was going to get their shots,” Curry said. “At the end of the day, we’re all talented and we all have high basketball I.Q.s, so just let things happen. You don’t have to force anything. We’ve been good at it at times, and not so good at other times. So it’s just a matter of sticking with the program.”After sinking 11 of 16 shots against the Rockets, Cousins acknowledged that it was the best he had felt since he made his return.“I think it’s coming,” Cousins said. “We’ve had stretches where it’s kind of flowing for everybody. But this is a team that’s been together for a while, and they’re used to playing a certain type of way. So for me to just come in — I’m not expecting this team to adjust to me. Obviously, I have to adjust to them.”Durant missed the game with a sprained ankle, which meant that Cousins had more playmaking opportunities than usual. Coach Steve Kerr made some adjustments, too, staggering Cousins and Green for stretches so that each had more room to operate in the middle of the court. Kerr has also been advising his players to pump the brakes in transition.“Sometimes we’ve played a little too fast and shot too many quick shots instead of letting him get down on the block and controlling things,” Kerr said, referring to Cousins. He added: “I think we’ve got to remind ourselves that this is still early in the process. We’re all learning. Me too. I’ve got to learn to use him better.”If Cousins still appears to labor at times (or most of the time) to get overly airborne, his confidence seems fine.“I don’t think anyone can stop me one on one, period,” he said. “So you can put whoever you want on me.”The Warriors and the Rockets have history. In last season’s Western Conference finals, Houston had a 3-2 series lead against Golden State, but Chris Paul injured his hamstring in Game 5. The Rockets lost the final two games of the series without him, and the Warriors went on to successfully defend their N.B.A. championship.Cousins was not involved in that series, but he is a part of the dynamic now — and the Warriors are not quite finished preparing themselves for the postseason. Andrew Bogut, a defense-minded center who last played for Golden State in 2016, is expected to join the team in the coming days after an M.V.P. season with the Sydney Kings of Australia’s National Basketball League. Kerr recently described Bogut as “an insurance policy in the frontcourt.”Yes, the league’s most compelling drama is about to welcome the return of a former cast member. For his part, Cousins said he would continue to focus on the only role he knows.“I just want to play basketball,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Rajon Rondo has had a difficult time for the Lakers. He was suspended after brawling with the Houston Rockets in the second game of the season. He proceeded to mangle his right hand not just once, but twice, requiring surgery both times while missing a total of 31 games. And in recent weeks, he has been coming off the bench for Coach Luke Walton, even as Lonzo Ball, who had been starting at point guard, continues to recover from an ankle injury.Rondo, a 13-year pro, was supposed to be an invaluable presence for the Lakers, who had otherwise surrounded LeBron James in Year 1 of the West Coast LeBron era with a cast of unproven (if promising) players and a hodgepodge of reclamation projects. Nobody thought this team would vie for a championship, but the road has been rougher than expected.In the wake of a recent two-game road trip to New Orleans and Memphis that resulted in two deflating losses and the very real sense that the Lakers could miss the playoffs, Walton approached Rondo for a quiet conversation. Walton wanted to put him back in the starting lineup for Wednesday’s game against the Pelicans, and Rondo was on board with the plan.After all, what did the Lakers have to lose? Aside from losing another game that they desperately needed to win.“We sat there and talked,” Walton said. “He’s been fine with his role. He wants to play more — everyone wants to play more. But he hasn’t been complaining or anything like that. But our conversation was one of: ‘Let’s talk about what we need to do. How do we get back on track?’ It was an honest conversation. It was healthy and positive.”As far as confidence-building exercises go, the Lakers’ subsequent 125-119 victory over the Pelicans was not necessarily Grade A material. The Pelicans have their own issues, and their star center Anthony Davis, who had hoped to be playing for the Lakers after this month’s trade deadline, was on a strict minutes limit as the Pelicans eye a summer sweepstakes for his services. (They would like to keep his limbs intact in the meantime.)But Walton’s favorite verb after the game was “need,” as in the Lakers needed the win and needed some positive vibes.Sure enough, Rondo helped a great deal, finishing with 16 assists, 11 points and 7 rebounds in 37 minutes.“I’m very confident in what Rondo has done in this league,” Walton said. “He’s struggled a little bit, but some of that’s on me. His minutes have been down. We’ve been trying to find different groups to work. But he’s proven over his career that when he gets an opportunity, he shows up to play.”Rondo was not particularly adept from the perimeter, shooting 5 of 15 from the field, and Davis feasted on the Lakers’ smaller lineup when he was on the court. Walton knows those could be more pressing issues against better teams. But for one night, the Lakers (30-31) allowed themselves to savor some hard-earned momentum — because it might not last.The Lakers, who have been hindered this season by injuries and trade-deadline intrigue, are not a great basketball team. The question is whether they are merely mediocre, with a chance of still making the playoffs, or not very good at all, in which case they will have wasted their first year with James on the roster.It hardly helps that the Lakers have one of the league’s most difficult schedules the rest of the way, starting Friday when they host the Milwaukee Bucks, who improved to 47-14 on Wednesday with a win against the Sacramento Kings. The Lakers’ coming schedule also includes meetings with playoff-bound teams like the Denver Nuggets and the Toronto Raptors.“Every day is going to be its own challenge,” James said, adding: “Just try to stay positive throughout whatever’s going on.”Rondo had experienced his own set of challenges ahead of Wednesday’s game. He was coming off a pair of dreadful performances during the team’s recent two-game trip, averaging 4.5 points and 2 assists off the bench while shooting 36.4 percent from the field. He was a nonfactor, or perhaps even a net negative.“I didn’t have the rhythm on both ends of the floor,” Rondo said. “That’s why we have 82 games. You have the opportunity to play again and redeem yourself.”At Wednesday’s shootaround, center Tyson Chandler kept yelling, “energy, energy, energy,” Rondo said. And during the game itself, the players focused on their body language — lots of hugs and high-fives — in addition to actually playing some defense for a change. Walton was also pleased that the Lakers had 37 assists to go with just eight turnovers.“It’s a lot of fun when your guys are playing like that,” he said.Forget that the Pelicans are struggling. Forget that James needed to sink a fadeaway 3-pointer from the corner with 31.3 seconds left to seal the win and sidestep disaster. Forget that Julius Randle, a center the Lakers let walk in free agency last summer, torched his old team for 35 points in the loss.Forget all this until Friday, when Rondo and the rest of the Lakers are sure to face an even stiffer challenge.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. season unofficially began with a superstar’s trade demand before the superstar in question (Jimmy Butler) and his team at the time (Minnesota) had even convened for training camp.Seven months and more than 1,200 games later, Magic Johnson upstaged the retirements of two legends — Dirk Nowitzki and Dwyane Wade — in unbecoming fashion by abruptly walking away from Jeanie Buss, LeBron James and the rest of the Los Angeles Lakers through a chaotic hour of unscheduled interviews with the news media.And there were countless dramas and controversies between those bookends, from the Houston Rockets’ poor start and near-instant divorce from Carmelo Anthony ... to the sad disintegration of the New Orleans Pelicans’ season after Anthony Davis’s trade demand … to the Lakers’ injury-driven collapse that ultimately prevented King James from reaching the postseason for the first time in 14 years.Regular season? Hardly. From Butler’s trade request to Friday’s announcement from the Lakers that they were parting ways with Coach Luke Walton, it was an exhausting ride. Yet we’ve finally arrived where we wanted to be all along: Saturday’s start of the playoffs.The overriding question now, as we step off that roller coaster and onto another, remains Golden State-centric for the fourth successive spring:Can anyone out there beat the Warriors four times in a seven-game series?My answer remains a firm no. But what will make this postseason unlike any other, beyond LeBron’s absence, is the array of ancillary questions sure to sprout about the futures of the Warriors and many of the teams chasing them.Only 80 days away, remember, is the July 1 start of a free-agent frenzy that is bound to be strongly influenced by playoff results. The principals: Golden State’s Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and DeMarcus Cousins; Boston’s Kyrie Irving; Toronto’s Kawhi Leonard; Philadelphia’s Tobias Harris and Butler; Milwaukee’s Khris Middleton; Charlotte’s Kemba Walker; and Orlando’s Nikola Vucevic.Just to name 10 past, present and future All-Stars.“I think this summer is going to be the most pivotal time in N.B.A. history,” said Charles Barkley, Turner Sports’ Hall of Fame analyst. “It’s going to dictate the next five years.”Any chance the Raptors have of persuading Leonard to stay in Canada, after months of noise suggesting that the Los Angeles Clippers are the front-runners to sign him, would seem to depend on a run to the N.B.A. finals. The Raptors are indeed my pick to get there by winning the post-LeBron East, but the high stakes involved, along with Toronto’s tortured playoff history, will weigh heavily on this team despite its potential as a defensive juggernaut.The pressure is even more tangible in Philadelphia thanks to the 76ers’ all-in trades for Harris and Butler. Those two, along with the sharpshooting J J Redick, are all free agents-to-be. It’s a lot for Sixers Coach Brett Brown to manage, especially when his best player, Joel Embiid, may not be available for the start of Philadelphia’s first-round series with the Nets because of a knee issue that has lingered since the All-Star Game. Whispers about Brown’s job security, as a result, are starting to circulate.Uncertainty likewise smothers the Celtics, who failed to even win 50 games and openly grappled with chemistry issues after finding the reintegration of Irving and Gordon Hayward, the former All-Star swingman, far more complicated than anyone — Boston officials included — expected. Fears of a two-round injury absence for the rugged guard Marcus Smart don’t help, with the looming specter of Irving’s free agency and a possible trade pursuit of Davis adding to the tension.Milwaukee, meanwhile, has the statistical profile of a team that should be heavily favored to represent the East in the finals and potentially take down the Warriors — except for the fact that the next playoff series won by the otherworldly Giannis Antetokounmpo will be his first. The Bucks are the only team in the league that ranked in the top five in offensive and defensive efficiency, but I confess to being one of those old-school pundits hung up on their lack of big-game experience.Denver is the West’s answer to Milwaukee and proof as a No. 2 seed that there were some uplifting tales to celebrate amid all of the transactional chaos and personality conflicts that tend to dominate the league’s slice of the social media universe. But the Nuggets’ own inexperience didn’t just steer me away from naming them as the Warriors’ top threat in the conference — it makes them vulnerable in Round 1 against San Antonio.It’s Houston, then, which stands as the team most capable of derailing the Warriors’ bid for a three-peat. Houston’s problem is that a costly slip to the No. 4 seed in the West dropped it into Golden State’s half of the playoff bracket. The Rockets now must face the Utah Jazz in a first-round matchup featuring the hottest (Houston went 20-5) and third-hottest (Utah went 18-7) teams since the All-Star break.For all the talk that the Rockets may benefit from a rematch with the Warriors in the conference semifinals rather than the West finals, when James Harden and Chris Paul are theoretically fresher, it may actually be Golden State that benefits the most from watching Houston and Utah beating each other up so early.The Warriors won’t refuse the help, either, because their veterans and coaches would undoubtedly argue that their regular-season grind is longer than anyone’s after four consecutive trips to the championship round. Ceaseless speculation about Durant’s potential free-agent defection to the Knicks or the Nets — yes, I’m indeed warning you now not to sleep on Brooklyn — has only added to Coach Steve Kerr’s daily challenge to keep his team focused.Another warning: Don’t forget that the Warriors tend to find that focus quickly once the calendar flips to the postseason. So many of their last 82 games were billed as uncharacteristically joyless, but Golden State is 32-6 in the playoffs since adding Durant.As long as Stephen Curry’s ankle scare earlier this week scare proves as minor as it appeared, bank on the Warriors to become the first team in 52 seasons — out of the 744 teams to reach the playoffs in that time — to make a fifth straight finals appearance. And then snag title No. 4 to cement themselves as indisputably dynastic.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressA look at where things stand in the NBA playoff picture, with four days remaining in the regular season:EASTERN CONFERENCEMiami controls its destiny, which sounds good.Miami could also be eliminated on Sunday as well.And Dwyane Wade's "One Last Dance" might end without a playoff berth.The Heat have not dropped four straight games at any point this season. It would be in their best interest for that statement to remain accurate on Sunday, when Miami — losers of three straight — gets the rare noon tip-off at Toronto. If the Heat win, they remain alive regardless of other outcomes. If they lose, it might be over.In fact, the remaining three spots in the Eastern Conference field could be claimed on Sunday. If Miami loses, and Brooklyn wins, and Detroit wins, the field will be set. If Miami wins, then the race is guaranteed to extend to at least Tuesday. And if the Heat go 3-0 in the next four days — after the game at Toronto, they host Philadelphia on Tuesday and visit Brooklyn on Wednesday — they're in the playoffs."You want to win in the playoffs, you have to learn how to win pressure games and games with expectation and consequences during the regular season," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "This can't feel any more like the playoffs right now. Our backs are fully against the wall. I just think this is an awesome experience for our team. You have to find a way to embrace this and rise to the challenge."Philadelphia cut its magic number for clinching the No. 3 spot to one by defeating Chicago on Saturday. In the only other game on the NBA schedule — intentionally made light by the schedule-makers because of the NCAA Final Four going on — Brooklyn went up one spot to sixth, passing Orlando, by holding off Milwaukee on Saturday. The Bucks rested Giannis Antetokounmpo in that one because of a calf issue.But all was not lost for the Magic.Orlando can clinch its first playoff berth since 2012 on Sunday; the Magic would get in if they win at Boston, or if Miami and Charlotte both lose. If the Magic don't beat the Celtics, then Boston would secure a top-four spot and home-court for the first round.WESTERN CONFERENCEOracle Arena will play host to more games. Probably a lot more games, to be honest, unless the Golden State Warriors get stunned in the early rounds of these playoffs.But on Sunday night, the Warriors will play a regular-season game there for the 1,936th, and last, time.And they could close that chapter at their Oakland home in style: A win over the Los Angeles Clippers in the home regular-season finale on Sunday would secure the No. 1 seed in the Western Conference race for the two-time defending NBA champions, who are moving to the brand-new Chase Center in San Francisco starting next season."We've got one more before we can seal up the No. 1 seed and take care of that goal," Warriors star Stephen Curry said. "These next three games are just about finishing the right way. I'm happy with where we are as a team, taking care of our business, and we'll figure out who we're going to play next weekend and we'll go from there."Warriors-Clippers could be the West's headline game Sunday night, though many others will have a say in the seeding races.Denver will look to sweep a home-and-home against the Trail Blazers when the teams meet in Portland. But the Nuggets are sitting Nikola Jokic, Paul Millsap and Jamal Murray to rest, which certainly helps out the Blazers.Houston will be a very big favorite over Phoenix, and the Rockets could still get to No. 2 in the West — the spot currently held by Denver, which cannot slip past No. 3. Portland would be assured of the No. 4 spot with a 3-0 finish, while Utah, San Antonio and Oklahoma City also have games that matter seeding-wise Sunday.SUNDAY'S GAMES— Miami at Toronto: Toronto is the No. 2 seed in the East and still could be No. 2 in the NBA. Miami has almost no more room for error.— San Antonio at Cleveland: This is a game that the Spurs should win, unless for some reason they want Golden State in the first round.— Oklahoma City at Minnesota: See above. Unless the Thunder want to see Golden State in the first round, they likely need to win this one.— Charlotte at Detroit: Pistons aren't as desperate as the Hornets, who need a 3-0 finish and help to get in. Detroit can still get No. 6 seed.— Brooklyn at Indiana: Nets went to 6th on Saturday, and will finish there if they win out. Pacers know they're likely going to be the 5 seed.— Phoenix at Houston: Rockets can still get to No. 2 seed if things break their way. The Suns have lost 239 games in the last four years.— Orlando at Boston: Magic will clinch their first playoff spot since 2012 with a win. Celtics will wrap up home-court for Round 1 with a win.— L.A. Clippers at Golden State: Warriors coach Steve Kerr has won at least 55 games in all five of his seasons. L.A. playing for 6th, 7th or 8th.— Denver at Portland: The resting-up Nuggets still can finish with No. 2 seed. Blazers may get to 3rd seed, trying to hold off Jazz for 4th.— Utah at L.A. Lakers: The Jazz are 31-10 in their last 41 games, yet still might not get home-court for Round 1. Extremely dangerous team.Games with no playoff implications: Dallas at Memphis, Atlanta at Milwaukee, Washington at New York, New Orleans at Sacramento.___CURRENT BRACKETFirst-round matchups if the season ended Saturday ...East: 1-Milwaukee vs. 8-Detroit, 2-Toronto vs. 7-Orlando, 3-Philadelphia vs. 6-Brooklyn, 4-Boston vs. 5-Indiana.West: 1-Golden State vs. 8-San Antonio, 2-Denver vs. 7-Oklahoma City, 3-Houston vs. 6-L.A. Clippers, 4-Portland vs. 5-Utah.___NOTE OF THE DAYNine teams had a 10-game (or longer) winning streak last season. This season, only Golden State has. Utah can get there by winning out.___QUOTE OF THE DAY"We're not satisfied." — Denver coach Michael Malone, after the Nuggets clinched home-court edge for their first playoff series since 2013.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Harvey AratonThe crush of bodies surrounding Dwyane Wade as he left an N.B.A. court for the last time as an active player had the effect of a small tidal wave, surging through the jammed Barclays Center tunnel, head-on into a pack of waiting well-wishers.At the rear of the crowd stood Pat Riley, who brought Wade to Miami 16 years ago, nurtured him to stardom, celebrated three championships with him, let him get away in 2016 over a contract dispute and less than two years later welcomed him home with open arms.“Whoa,” Riley said, hands on the shoulders of his wife, Chris, steadying her against the swell of humanity.Now here, finally, came Wade, man of the hour. Wade and Riley, both standing 6 feet 4 inches, made eye contact. Riley raised his right arm forward. Wade reached above the security detail, clasping his hand with the team president’s. The linchpins of the Miami Heat franchise pulled together for a heartfelt embrace.“One more,” Riley told Wade. “I’ve got a max contract for you.”Wade snickered. Riley chortled. It was the self-mocking joke Riley could tell and they both could enjoy after Wade, having gone home again following unfulfilling detours to Chicago and Cleveland, was given the send-off he deserved.After being traded back to Miami by the Cavaliers early last year, Wade talked himself into a last dance for the 2018-19 season, many nights of which he played younger than his well-worn 37 years. Properly feted before Miami’s home schedule closeout on Tuesday night, he scored 30 points in a victory over Philadelphia and topped it off with a playful triple double (25 points, 11 rebounds, 10 assists) as the Heat’s season ended 24 hours later with a 113-94 defeat to the playoff-bound Nets.“I can retire and be happy about my career,” Wade would say, sporting a gold and black jacket in the interview room, on his way out to dance the night away with a guest list that included his N.B.A. “brotherhood” — LeBron James, Carmelo Anthony and Chris Paul.However dapper at 74, with a fine head of combed-back gray hair, Riley was never part of that social scene, just the patriarch who landed Wade with the fifth pick of the 2003 draft, considered at the time to be a consolation prize after James, Darko Milicic, Anthony and Chris Bosh were the first four players chosen.But Wade was more special than anyone imagined during his time at Marquette, a world-class gymnast in basketball footwear, with the uncommon calm of a cocksure gunslinger.When Wade had moved on into the corridor leading to the locker room, I told Riley about a 2005 playoff night in Auburn Hills, Mich., when Wade, as a second-year player, was making life quite difficult for the defending champion, defensively stout Detroit Pistons in the Eastern Conference finals.Taking a halftime stroll, I ran into Chuck Daly, who as the Pistons coach in the late 1980s had devised a defense specifically for Michael Jordan — the famous Jordan Rules.“I’ll tell you what, he’s got some Jordan in him,” Daly said, dragging on a cigarette, when I asked what he thought of the young Wade. “He’s got all the things you can’t teach.”Riley nodded. “Chuck was right,” he said.Wade had other elite qualities besides the balletic ability to score from angles we couldn’t be sure actually existed. He could pass like a point guard when his team needed an assist. He was a solid team defender. He retires as the most productive shot-blocking guard in N.B.A. history, having last month nudged past Jordan.Flashy as he was, Wade had some Tim Duncan in him, too. Until James arrived with Bosh in the summer of 2010, he was unquestionably the franchise star without having to broadcast it to the world, and his door was open to anyone who could give him a better chance to win.Wade embraced Riley’s 2004 acquisition of Shaquille O’Neal when Kobe Bryant wanted no part of the big fella in Los Angeles. He recruited James while fully aware of how the self-proclaimed King was great at basketball, as well as sucking the oxygen out of an organization.When James departed after two titles and four consecutive runs to the finals, Riley called it the most devastating blow of his time in Miami, but Wade insisted there were no hard feelings. It was business. He was still being paid to play basketball, live in Miami. How could life not be good?Yet he wasn’t immune to wounded pride when Riley refused to give him a third contract year in 2016, citing Wade’s balky knees and declining stats. Wade left, reluctantly, one more divorce in a league of ever-transient stars.There’s nothing wrong, nothing at all, with players maximizing free agency, leveraging their way to whichever location suits them at a certain career stage. James of course has been the pied piper of the paradigm. Kevin Durant is reportedly poised to again follow his lead, right out of Golden State.But James’s presence in Brooklyn on Wednesday night, a convenient excuse to avoiding dealing with Magic Johnson’s sudden, stunning disappearance from the Lakers’ front office, was a reminder that the more moves a player makes, the better the odds he might eventually outmaneuver himself.Meanwhile, Dirk Nowitzki, like Wade, was also demonstrating the currency in continuity, finishing a 21-year run Wednesday night with the Dallas Mavericks to widespread acclaim. Manu Ginobili and Duncan were similarly deified for staying the course in San Antonio. Wade will remain the toast of South Florida.In the Miami locker room, a few young Heat players lined up for Wade to sign their jerseys and sneakers. The No. 3 jersey he wore was given to Anthony, a shooter without a squad after parting ways with Paul’s Houston Rockets this season after a mere 10 games.Anthony did manage to scoop up a ball rolling out of bounds in the fourth quarter by the corner front row from where he, Paul and James were cheering on Wade. He took one dribble and, thankfully, resisted the temptation.“I didn’t get a chance to play against Melo this season and exchange jerseys,” said Wade, explaining the gesture. “He was the missing piece.”Throughout his career, wherever he lit up the scoreboard, Anthony seemed to miss the point, unwilling to — as former President Barack Obama said of Wade in a video tribute — “sometimes sacrifice your ego in pursuit of a title.”If Anthony never plays again in the N.B.A., is there a moral to their divergent stories? Only if the most graceful departure possible is a priority, part of the plan. It apparently was for Wade. He left with a self-assured smile and, while indicating he would probably need therapy to deal with the time on his hands, he ruled out a potential return.“I think everybody knows this is for real,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Stephen Curry was about 25 minutes into a news conference here on Saturday afternoon when a magician who goes by the name Jibrizy sidled up to the dais to do a card trick. Curry, the Golden State Warriors point guard, seemed impressed.“That was nice, big fella,” Curry said. “That was crazy. Y’all see that? Did y’all see that? What’s your name, boss? Jibrizy? Nice to meet you, man. Fire. You’re fire. That’s what’s up.”Lots of weird stuff tends to happen during N.B.A. All-Star weekend, and a cameo by Jibrizy was no exception. But it was also the rare instance when the spotlight left Curry, if only for a moment, in the run-up to the weekend’s flagship game on Sunday.Curry, a six-time All-Star and two-time most valuable player who has already coaxed Golden State to three championships, is used to lots of attention. But he relished his return to Charlotte, where he grew up to become perhaps the greatest shooter of all time — and where he is still revered.“From the time I started playing basketball at 5, right down the street at the recreation center, to now, a lot has happened,” Curry said. “A lot of great things.”Curry was not so great Sunday, but that was not the point. He finished with 17 points, 9 rebounds and 7 assists for Team Giannis in a 178-164 loss to Team LeBron in the All-Star Game, which was a defense-free postscript to a weekend that was a Curry family affair.“Incredibly fond of the family,” Commissioner Adam Silver told reporters. “They seem to be the first family of Charlotte, at least this week.”For much of his trip home, Curry was accompanied by his father, Dell, who spent 10 seasons playing for the Charlotte Hornets, and his mother, Sonya, who drilled a half-court heave after the family helped refurbish a community center. It was probably the family’s splashiest shot of the weekend.“I was surprised,” Stephen Curry said, “because the first four she flung underhand, they didn’t make it to the rim. And then that last one, it just looked good from the moment it left her hand, and I was going, ‘Wham, bam, can of ham! That’s going in!’ ”Curry had less success in Saturday night’s 3-point shootout, where he was joined by his younger brother, Seth, who plays for the Portland Trail Blazers. Stephen Curry made it to the championship round before losing to Joe Harris of the Brooklyn Nets.But Curry had also found time to return to Davidson College, his alma mater, where he clambered into the student section to celebrate an 80-72 victory over St. Joseph’s on Friday night.“The energy in the building was unbelievable,” Curry said. “It’s surreal every time I get to go back there.”The following afternoon, Curry swayed in a sea of reporters (and at least one magician) as he fielded a wide-ranging mix of questions.What did it mean to him to be back in Charlotte? “It’s kind of overwhelming to be honest,” he said. “I’ve got to be like the Energizer bunny.”Could he say something nice to all his fans in the Dominican Republic? “I’ve been there, and I hope to go back,” he said.Did he have a favorite basketball-themed movie? “Probably ‘Love & Basketball,’ ” he said. “I’m a romantic, bro.”During warm-ups for Sunday’s game, Curry mimicked a game of volleyball with Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, posted up a ball boy so that he could take an entry pass from Oklahoma City Thunder point guard Russell Westbrook, made chitchat with bigwigs who were courtside and jacked his share of 30-footers. Most of them went in. All-Star weekend is a circus, but it is still basketball, after all, and Curry has unique skills.He is assembling another spectacular season, even if his work has been overshadowed by fellow All-Stars like James Harden of the Houston Rockets, Paul George of the Thunder and Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo. Curry has been so consistently good for so long now — and his team so dominant — that perhaps some of the novelty has worn off. It is unfair, of course.If his feats feel too familiar, consider his production this season: 28.6 points, 5.2 assists and 5.1 rebounds per game while shooting 48.8 percent from the field and 44.4 percent from 3-point range. He missed 11 games with a groin injury but spent part of that time gluing the Warriors’ locker room back together after Kevin Durant and Draymond Green had a big dust-up.The friction stemmed from Durant’s looming free agency, which has been a steady hum of distraction for the Warriors. But Curry has been a stabilizing force for his team — and even for the league.With a contract that runs through the 2021-22 season, Curry has not had to face pressing questions about his future. He is committed to the Warriors, and the Warriors appear committed to him. He is a throwback in an era dominated by player movement, the current face of which is Anthony Davis, the All-Star center who recently requested a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans. So many other stars face uncertain summers, too: Durant, Kyrie Irving and Kawhi Leonard among them.But Curry has his niche in Northern California, even if his roots are in North Carolina. After Sunday’s game, he described trying to persuade his father to move to the Bay Area, where Curry has settled in with his wife, Ayesha, and their three children.Dell Curry, who is a color commentator for the Hornets, always says no.“This is where home is for him,” Stephen Curry said.And for Stephen Curry, the whereabouts of his father seem to be the only player movements on his mind. Curry said he was unconcerned with free agency this summer and the potential departures of his teammates.“That’s a part of the business,” Curry said. “But the great teams, the great players, they stay in the moment and they understand what’s in front of them.”And so, after taking a weekend to dip into his past, Curry returned to looking ahead. The journey goes on.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaSACRAMENTO — The Boston Celtics were not in a good place when they boarded a plane bound for California on Sunday. They were coming off a home loss to the Houston Rockets that point guard Kyrie Irving punctuated by using a total of 43 words to answer nine questions in his postgame news conference.At one point, he was asked whether he thought the team could cobble together some momentum on its West Coast trip.“We’ll see,” he whispered.Just one season removed from a run to the N.B.A.’s Eastern Conference finals, and seemingly improved by the re-addition of Gordon Hayward and the continued development of their young core, the Celtics were on the brink of falling apart. Any hope they still harbored of being a championship-ready team was as brittle as a toothpick.But after some reflection and conversation, the Celtics regained a bit of their swagger with back-to-back wins this week against the Golden State Warriors and the Sacramento Kings. The Celtics will see if they can keep the good vibes going on Saturday against the Los Angeles Lakers, which is anything but certain, especially for Irving, whose season has been clouded by questions about his future with the team.Such uncertainty does not make Irving unique in the modern N.B.A. — Kevin Durant of the Warriors and Kawhi Leonard of the Toronto Raptors are among the other stars who will weigh big decisions in free agency this summer — but the Celtics have let the noise affect them.With the two wins this week improving their record to 40-26, the Celtics may be showing signs that they are finally, mercifully, learning how to cope.“That long plane ride helped us out,” Irving said after Tuesday’s lopsided victory over the Warriors. “I’ll just say that. We needed it. We needed it. We were going to get to a point where we were just going to get tired of fighting each other, fighting the outside world when it doesn’t really matter. So we just wanted to come out here and play basketball.“This is our sanctuary, and we have to do everything we can to protect it. We can’t let anyone infiltrate it.”Irving, who missed Wednesday’s win against the Kings with a left thigh contusion, is averaging a team-leading 23.4 points a game along with 7 assists and 4.9 rebounds, both career highs. He is also shooting 49.5 percent from the field and 41.7 percent from 3-point range.He also ranks among the N.B.A. leaders in mercurial behavior. He has been vague about the specific source of his discontent, but it may have something to do with his pending free agency.Irving backed off an earlier pledge to re-sign with the Celtics after they struggled at the start of the season. In fact, during a trip to New York to play the Knicks on Feb. 1, he told a group of reporters in his own colorfully abrasive way that he did not owe anyone anything. The Knicks, of course, would be interested in signing Irving, a six-time All-Star who grew up in New Jersey and has a soft spot for Madison Square Garden.Then came the All-Star break, and a clip of Irving and Durant having an inaudible conversation found its way to the internet, where an army of amateur lip readers tried to decode what they were saying. Worth noting: Irving and Durant are close friends. Also worth noting: The Knicks will have enough cap space this summer for two max contracts.Irving refused to shed light on their chat, and said it was nobody’s business, which was his prerogative. But it had the general effect of using a napkin to mop up an oil spill.Since then, Irving has been alluding to nefarious forces and the steep cost of celebrity, saying he hates the spotlight — even as he sells sneakers and moonlights as an actor. He reiterated his disdain this week after collecting 19 points and 11 assists against the Warriors, his 17th double-double this season.“The business part of it is just what makes it terrible for me — honestly, dealing with all this,” he said, referring to the reporters around him. “I’m going to be honest with you guys: The basketball part of it? I have to keep that fun. That’s where I’m great. Being around my teammates, that’s what makes me happy. And the business part of it is going to be business.”It was not lost on anyone who witnessed this exchange that Irving was bashing the business of basketball while wearing an Uncle Drew ball cap — the same Uncle Drew character he popularized in soft drink commercials and then parlayed into a movie released last year.As for the basketball itself, well, Boston has had an uneven season, the product of a team that is not nearly Lakers-level dysfunctional but is not exactly cohesive, either. The Celtics arrived for their game against the Warriors having lost five of their last six games, and their locker room was a joyless place.Perhaps they needed to get away from Boston. Perhaps they needed perspective. Perhaps Irving needed to speak with Danny Ainge, the team’s president of basketball operations, and Brad Stevens, its coach, who reminded Irving that the team still had a lot of season left to play. It was not over, not yet, not by any stretch.“Every team has to find a togetherness in competing,” Stevens said. “Some teams, it takes 60 games. Some teams, it takes 20 games. And bad teams never get there. We hope that it took us 60 games, but we’ll see. We haven’t proven ourselves to be great at that yet for a long stretch of time.”In their 128-95 win against the Warriors, the Celtics had 38 assists on 49 field goals. They also communicated. When Irving and forward Jaylen Brown botched a play that led to an early turnover, Brown patted himself on the chest to apologize, then appeared to apologize a second time on their next trip up the court.The next night, in Sacramento, Irving sat behind the visiting bench for the Celtics’ 111-109 victory over the Kings. He was vocal. He did a lot of fist-pumping. And he celebrated when Hayward, less than 24 hours after scoring 30 points against the Warriors, connected on the game-winner.After suffering a grisly ankle injury in the opening game and missing last season, Hayward has struggled to find a rhythm in his return. Maybe he found it here in California, along with the rest of the team. The Celtics are too talented to let this opportunity go to waste, because who knows how long it will last?“As long as my teammates are feeling good,” Irving said, “then we’re in a good place.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyFans tuning in to Saturday’s marquee matchup between Duke and Virginia waited less than two minutes before getting what they came for. On an early Virginia possession, Duke’s Zion Williamson, the impossible freshman who moves with a guard’s agility while weighing 280 pounds, recovered a loose ball and hammered down a two-handed dunk with Old Testament fury.Williamson is expected to be the top pick in this year’s N.B.A. draft and has been this season’s signature player — a quality so inseparable from his ferocious slams that a rare missed dunk last week against Boston College became a highlight in its own right.The only other player who has come close to capturing the collective imagination as Williamson is Murray State’s Ja Morant, a 6-foot-3 sophomore who has played his way from virtual anonymity to likely top-five draft position on a diet of Jordan-esque leaping, flying slams.That Williamson and Morant are this season’s college basketball folk heroes is in one sense entirely logical. Dunks are popular, they dunk well, therefore they are popular.Yet in the context of recent history and current basketball trends, they are outliers as stars because they are relatively poor shooters from long distance.Neither player can efficiently utilize the 3-pointer, which has cemented itself as the most treasured tool in the modern offensive game. Williamson has made less than 30 percent of the 47 3-pointers he has attempted. Morant is at 32.7 percent, below the Division I average of 34.3 percent.Williamson’s attitude toward the 3-pointer may be best summarized not by any of his own shots, but by his sensational block of De’Andre Hunter’s ill-fated attempt late in Saturday’s game, an 81-71 Duke victory.Their proficiency in dunking over long-distance shooting signals how special they are, of course, but also might herald a market correction in which basketball’s most reliable shot is back in.In recent seasons, the defining players — the ones who made the biggest impacts and summed up the college basketball zeitgeist — have overwhelmingly been sharpshooters. Think of Oklahoma’s Trae Young and Buddy Hield, Kansas’ Frank Mason III, Indiana’s Yogi Ferrell, Purdue’s Caleb Swanigan and even Duke’s infamous Grayson Allen. The last 7-footer to be named player of the year, Wisconsin’s Frank Kaminsky, was not a high-volume shooter of 3s, but he made 41.6 percent of his attempts in his Wooden Award-winning season. Villanova won a title at the buzzer when Kris Jenkins hit a 3.Yet this year’s watch list for the Wooden Award includes Williamson and Morant along with other poor-shooting yet exciting non-big men like Duke’s R.J. Barrett and Tennessee’s Grant Williams. Marquette’s Markus Howard has received comparatively little attention as this year’s exemplary high-volume, high-accuracy distance shooter.The ESPN analyst Jay Bilas said dunks were emerging as more crucial to offenses because so-called midrange shots — 2-point attempts that are not from close in near the basket — have been so devalued by analytics. Get to the rim. Get fouled. Or take a 3. Those are the modern basketball credos.Bilas said it was possible that, after several years in which the 3-pointer has predominated in top offenses, coaches have improved at devising defenses to stymie perimeter shooting — in that way placing a premium on wing players who excel at close range. But mainly Williamson and Morant stand out because they are standouts.“We’re seeing more dunks because there are more spectacular athletes out there,” he said.“A lot of guys can dunk, but he dunks on the way up,” he added of Williamson. “His head is literally at or over the rim every time.”Recent seasons’ emphasis on the 3 was easy to understand if you looked to the N.B.A.’s discovery of the 3-pointer’s efficiency. The Golden State Warriors emerged as a dynasty thanks in part to their high-volume 3-point shooting, and even they have been surpassed by teams like the Houston Rockets who attempt 3s at record numbers while confining their other shots to the restricted area under the basket.Meanwhile, the trey picked up a cachet that had previously been reserved only for the jam. Players who sank one from deep mimicked bow-and-arrow shots toward their benches, igniting their teammates; Stephen Curry, Hield and Young became the players youngsters aspired to play like.And to be sure, 3-pointers have not gone away. This season they account for nearly a third of the points scored in Division I, according to KenPom.com, the highest ever and part of a steady upward trajectory. Teams are making 34.3 percent of attempts, which is just a few fractions of a percent off the past couple years’ heights.What have positively plummeted are, as Bilas suggested, midrange attempts. According to Ken Pomeroy, KenPom.com’s proprietor, midrange shots — defined essentially as 2-point attempts beyond a couple feet from the basket — account for barely a quarter of total field goal attempts this season. That figure was 33 percent as recently as the 2012-13 season.“The 15- to 20-footers are becoming extinct,” Pomeroy said in an interview.With players setting up farther from the basket, the dunk opportunity has opened perhaps more than ever before. And into that breach have stepped an uncommonly talented crop of dunkers.“This is the best dunking college basketball has seen in a while,” said Chuck Millan, a dunk coach involved not only with high schoolers but with the N.B.A.’s dunk contest, which will be staged Saturday night.Millan highlighted lesser known players with sensational abilities, including Connecticut’s Kwintin Williams, Florida Gulf Coast’s Troy Baxter and Arkansas-Little Rock’s Rayjon Tucker — “a freak of nature,” as Millan put it.As for Williamson and Morant, Millan said that, as with chocolate and vanilla, a comparison comes down to personal preference — although he may ultimately fall on Team Zion.“With Ja, it’s the dunks in traffic, because he’s little, and the body contact he takes,” Millan said. “Zion, being 6-8, 280, seeing him be just so agile and almost ballerina-like, being such a huge dude — it’s more impressive.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Howard MegdalAaron Gordon sat slouched in front of his locker, immobile as ice packs worked on his body following yet another loss earlier this season. His Orlando Magic teammates showered and dressed, and left.Gordon’s back had been bothering him, and no wonder: He’s in his fifth year of carrying the Magic franchise. And he is in for the long haul, too. After doing what he described as “due diligence” this past summer, Gordon signed a four-year, $80 million contract, handing over most of his mid-20s to a team that, so far, has failed to put a winning combination around him.But if the 6-foot-9 multidimensional star is still waiting for a winning supporting cast, his 2018-19 season is the latest, best evidence yet that he is approaching a specific kind of broad-based play that is fast becoming a requirement for surviving in the N.B.A.Gordon showed it off days ago in a 103-96 win over the Golden State Warriors.He did it all, scoring 22 points, pulling down 15 rebounds and using his defensive athleticism to help limit the Warriors to 9-for-40 shooting from 3-point range. By the end of last week, the surging Magic had found themselves in eighth place in the Eastern Conference and in new territory for Gordon: the playoff race.It has taken every skill Gordon has, but for his part, the 23-year-old has embraced the way the competition in the N.B.A. has demanded that he do virtually everything on any given night.“Versatility is going to be a huge part. The league is going in that direction,” Gordon said. “So it’s going to be 6-9, 6-10, 6-11, 7-foot guys able to do everything — handle the ball, pass, shoot, rebound. That’s the way the game is going to be.”And that’s the way the game is for Gordon, and how it has been dating back to his high school days at Archbishop Mitty in San Jose, Calif., where he played point guard before a late growth spurt turned him into a 6-foot-9 forward at Arizona, and then the fourth overall pick in the 2014 N.B.A. draft.The Magic can use Gordon anywhere.For three consecutive possessions in a game against the Houston Rockets in January, Gordon found himself bringing the ball up the floor and feeding center Nikola Vucevic in the post, settling out on the wing for a 3-pointer on a catch-and-shoot, and then posting up himself.“Offensively, his efficiency is up, and his assists are way up,” Magic Coach Steve Clifford said of Gordon. “I think one of our issues has been drawing fouls and getting the ball going into the paint. And that’s something he’s done a good job with.”Gordon was back in San Jose this past summer, getting up 300 shots every day, and the result has been a 53.3 true shooting percentage, his most efficient showing in three years, even as he’s taken more shots from everywhere on the court and opposing defenses have constructed game plans around stopping him.But he also put in extra time on work like slide steps, all with the long-range goal of becoming an elite two-way player. Clifford said Gordon laid out his plans for himself when the two first spoke after Clifford was hired over the summer.The results have been extraordinary. Per Synergy, Gordon ranks second (of 140 qualified players) in the N.B.A. in points per possession on isolation plays, minimum 40 possessions, with 0.545 points per possession.And he isn’t doing this against just bigs, either: The Magic routinely play him against the opposing team’s biggest offensive threat.When the Magic played the Nets in January, Orlando had Gordon take on Joe Harris, a shooting guard, the league leader in three-point percentage and winner of the three-point contest during All-Star weekend.“That speaks to, first of all, what they think of Joe, and also what they think of Gordon’s defensive game,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “And defensively, when he wants to stop a guy, he can stop him — he has phenomenal athleticism.”The extent of Gordon’s abilities on that end were revealed further against the Nets that night, when a switch landed Gordon on the Nets’ D’Angelo Russell, an uber-quick point guard in the midst of the finest scoring barrage of his career. Russell feinted left, right, trying to find a pathway with his dribble from the top of the key. Gordon did not let him pass, and Russell, clearly frustrated, finally shunted the ball off to a teammate.The indications that Gordon has become a star are there. What is far less clear is how Orlando puts a championship team around him, though Clifford effusively endorsed him as the model player of that future roster.“He fits with what wins in the N.B.A. right now,” Clifford said. “He’s 23, and he’s made terrific gains, already, this year.”Clifford is a capable coach, in his first season with Orlando. But the roster looks less like a plan and more like a series of one-off moves. Vucevic is an excellent, traditional center, but his presence has kept Gordon, along with young bigs Mo Bamba and Jonathan Isaac, from getting significant time developing as the kind of stretch 5s most teams around the league deploy.Gordon is picked to run the offense, and does so effectively — his assist percentage of 16.4 is a career high — but that is in part because Orlando lacks a true starting point guard. Markelle Fultz may be the answer long-term, but whether the embattled former Philadelphia 76ers guard even plays this season remains a mystery.Gordon’s next step, per Clifford, needs to be the role of go-to scorer down the stretch of games, which Gordon agrees with. Will it happen?“Well, we’ll see,” Clifford said. “I mean, that’s what it’s all about. We’ll see.”But he needs help getting to those late-game situations with a chance to win it. Still, as Gordon eases into superstardom in the relative obscurity of Orlando’s slow rise in the East, he often uses visualization to help motivate himself, closing his eyes and picturing what a championship for the only franchise he’s ever known would look like.He said it gets hard to see it sometimes, pointing out that “a lot of things have to go right” even as he said he was sure it will.“Of course,” Gordon said, pulling on his pants gingerly, navigating his sore back.Toppling the Warriors last week showed Gordon just may be right. Losing to the lowly Cleveland Cavaliers on Sunday night, though, showed how far the Magic have to go.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinWith all of the trade drama surrounding Anthony Davis and Kristaps Porzingis, the N.B.A. intruded on the N.F.L.’s run-up to the Super Bowl as we have not seen since Kobe Bryant scored 81 points on football’s so-called Championship Sunday in 2006.Now that the Super Bowl is over and even more of North America’s sporting consciousness is there to be seized by professional basketball’s tireless headline-makers, here is our best advice: Buckle up.What follows is a by-the-numbers look at what the N.B.A.’s 73rd season has served up so far — and what the next five months hold.Through Sunday’s games, only the Milwaukee Bucks were on a 60-win pace. The Bucks’ Eastern Conference-leading record of 38-13 projects to a 61-win campaign — which could keep this season from being the league’s first since 2000-1 without a 60-win club.There are realistically 11 teams battling for the Western Conference’s eight playoff spots, after the new calendar year began with 14 teams in the conference — all but Phoenix — in the race. Dallas, New Orleans and Memphis have dropped off in January, prompting all three teams to focus more on trades than the standings.The consensus top three in the Most Valuable Player Award race coming out of Super Bowl weekend are Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo, Houston’s James Harden and Denver’s Nikola Jokic. According to the Basketball-Reference.com M.V.P. Award Tracker, Antetokounmpo awoke Sunday with a 37.8 percent chance of winning — far ahead of Harden’s 21.1 percent.Harden has scored at least 30 points in 26 consecutive games, good for the third-longest such streak in N.B.A. annals behind Wilt Chamberlain’s streaks of 65 and 31.The league’s trade deadline (Thursday at 3 p.m. Eastern) is three days away. This is the second season since 1978-79 (as far back as reliable N.B.A. record-keeping goes) that the deadline falls before the All-Star Game.The New Orleans Pelicans have made two trips to the playoffs — winning only one series — in Davis’s first six seasons with the team. Davis requested a trade on Jan. 28.It took 54 days for the Minnesota Timberwolves to find a trade they liked for Jimmy Butler after Butler’s request to be dealt became public Sept. 18. Butler was snubbed by East coaches in All-Star voting, but the potential ceiling for Philadelphia’s rugged new star threesome was evident Thursday night at Golden State, when Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Butler and Company brought a halt to the longest winning streak of the season — after the Warriors had won 11 in a row.Minnesota is 21-18 since the trade that sent Butler and Justin Patton to Philadelphia on Nov. 12 — and 6-6 since firing Tom Thibodeau, the coach/team president who made it, on Jan. 6. Ryan Saunders, Thibodeau’s 32-year-old replacement, has many admirers around the league, but the Wolves are a long way from convincing skeptics that the deal (to bring in Robert Covington, Dario Saric, Jerryd Bayless and a 2022 second-round pick) was sufficient for a player of Butler’s caliber.Thibodeau is one of three coaches to be fired this season — after nine coaching changes in the off-season. The other coaches to lose their jobs since opening night: Cleveland’s Tyronn Lue and Chicago’s Fred Hoiberg.There were 20 teams, entering Sunday’s play, attempting at least 30 3-pointers a game. This is poised to become the first season in N.B.A. history that the leaguewide average per game (31.4) will finish in the 30s.With coaches calling for more 3-pointers than ever before and greenlighting shots earlier and earlier in the 24-second shot clock — along with a new rule that resets the shot clock at 14 seconds on offensive rebounds — teams are averaging 100.0 possessions per 48 minutes leaguewide. The last N.B.A. season in which that figure finished in triple digits was 1988-89 (100.6).Milwaukee’s Khris Middleton, Orlando’s Nikola Vucevic, Philadelphia’s Simmons and Denver’s Jokic will make their All-Star Game debuts Feb. 17 in Charlotte, N.C. The All-Star player draft, in which the captains LeBron James and Antetokounmpo will fill out 13-man rosters by picking players playground-style, is Thursday at 7 p.m. — just four hours after the trade deadline passes. (D’Angelo Russell of the Nets, who was named later as a replacement for Indiana’s Victor Oladipo, who is injured, will also be making his All-Star debut this year.)Four teams are in contention for the league’s worst record: Phoenix (11-43), Cleveland (11-42), Chicago (12-41) and, of course, the Knicks (10-42). The teams that finish in the bottom three will share a 14 percent chance of landing the No. 1 overall pick in the draft in June in the first year of the league’s revised lottery system.San Antonio sits a surprising fifth in the West, at 32-22, in its first season since trading Kawhi Leonard to Toronto in July. The Spurs are bidding for a record 22nd consecutive playoff berth, a streak that began in Gregg Popovich’s first full season as Spurs coach in 1997-98.At 27-25, Sacramento is on course to post its first winning record since the 2005-6 season. But the Kings will have to leapfrog at least two teams to stop the league’s longest playoff drought (12 seasons). The Suns (nine seasons) and the Orlando Magic (seven) are on course to extend their own playoff droughts.The Lakers’ playoff drought will hit a hard-to-believe six seasons in a row if James cannot save Los Angeles over its final 29 games. James just missed 17 consecutive games with a strained groin — the longest injury absence of his pro career — and is at risk for missing the postseason for the first time since his second N.B.A. season, in 2004-5.Carmelo Anthony finally became an unrestricted free agent on Sunday after clearing waivers nearly three months after the Houston Rockets sent him away in November after just 10 games together. The Rockets traded Anthony to Chicago on Jan. 21; the Bulls, who needed a roster spot, waived him Friday without him spending a single second with the team.In the seven games Golden State has deployed a lineup of DeMarcus Cousins, Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green, that group is averaging 127.1 points per 100 possessions in 54 minutes. Call it a small but ominous sample size.Oddsmakers in Las Vegas have the Warriors as overwhelming favorites to win their third consecutive championship and fourth in five seasons. According to ActionNetwork.com, Golden State is -225 to win it all, meaning that you would have to bet $225 to win $100. Boston, Milwaukee and Toronto are next in line at +1,000, meaning that a $100 bet would win $1,000 if any of those teams won the title.One scribe’s ranking of the top 10 players who could be unrestricted free agents July 1: Durant, Leonard, Kyrie Irving, Thompson, Butler, Kemba Walker, Cousins, Middleton, Marc Gasol and Tobias Harris.The N.B.A. playoffs start April 13.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Consider the following scenes from the N.B.A.’s annual bacchanal/business convention known as All-Star weekend:Spike Lee standing on a street corner waiting for the crosswalk signal. Stan Kroenke, whose family owns the Denver Nuggets, holding court in a hotel lobby. Joel Embiid, the star center of the Philadelphia 76ers, making small talk with the governor of North Carolina. An army of personal stylists waiting to be summoned by their clients for some of the flashiest events of the year.And then there were the agents and league officials and sneakerheads and reporters, some of whom traveled great distances to make unconventional requests of the weekend’s main attractions.“Shout out to my fans in Mongolia!” John Collins of the Atlanta Hawks yelled into a camera the morning before his appearance in the Saturday slam dunk contest.[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]All-Star weekend tends to be a blend of basketball and branding, business and pleasure — a showcase for a powerful league whose global influence continues to expand.“The whole weekend,” Mike Conley of the Memphis Grizzlies said, “is just a big party.”The All-Star Game itself, scheduled for Sunday night, felt secondary to just about everything else in the host city, as it has for many years. Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets, recalled waiting in line in 2006 for one of the more popular parties at All-Star weekend in Houston, where he watched Maciej Lampe — a center from Poland who appeared in 64 career games over parts of three seasons — bypass the line so that he could immediately be waved inside by security.“And I’m like, ‘Man, I’m behind Maciej Lampe?’” said Morey, who would officially join the front office of the Rockets a little more than six weeks later.All-Star weekend has only grown in recent years. One spreadsheet making the rounds in Charlotte listed more than 100 parties, and that did not include many of the more exclusive events. (Michael Jordan hosted a big one.) Thanks to a change in the league schedule, there is more partying and less deal-making than there used to be.Last year, the league moved the trade deadline up so that it preceded All-Star weekend. In the past, the deadline came a few days after the game, a sequence which helped create its share of absurdity. One of the more notorious examples came in 2017, when word leaked during the fourth quarter of the All-Star Game that the New Orleans Pelicans had struck a deal to acquire DeMarcus Cousins from the Sacramento Kings. Cousins learned of the trade during postgame interviews.The weekend vibe is different now.“It’s so much more fun,” one prominent agent said at a party that he hosted.In the corner, a disc jockey who appeared to be in his 60s spun tunes in a Hawaiian shirt and red-tinted glasses, while women wearing bright red dresses passed out hors d’oeuvres. Agents, clients and marketing honchos milled about the room.But none of this is meant to suggest that deals do not get done.On Thursday night, at a downtown hotel bar where patrons sipped $25 cocktails, a crowd of very tall men gathered as a private event wound down at a nearby steakhouse. Among the luminaries who emerged from the event: Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner; Kroenke, who also owns the Los Angeles Rams; Brian Rolapp, the N.F.L.’s chief media and business officer; Bill Simmons, the founder of The Ringer; Connor Schell, ESPN’s executive vice president for content; and Bob Myers, the general manager of the Golden State Warriors.“There are definitely conversations happening,” Morey said. “And there’s serendipity involved. You’re always bumping into people.”Morey was finishing lunch at an upscale restaurant. Warren LeGarie, a longtime agent to many coaches and executives, and Kiki Vandeweghe, the league’s executive vice president for basketball operations, were dining at nearby tables. Morey was about to head into a meeting with Vandeweghe and Monty McCutchen, who supervises the league’s referees.“Obviously, we care deeply about where the league is going,” Morey said, “so talking to Adam Silver about strategy or Monty McCutchen about changing how they might call certain things — all that kind of stuff could impact our franchise moving forward, so I try to be involved.”The atmosphere may seem more relaxed than it was two years ago, when most team executives and agents were focused on the trade deadline, but the shift in the schedule has not pushed aside the league’s most pressing issues.In Charlotte, a cloud loomed over the festivities, and it came in the shape of a unibrow.Perhaps you have heard? Anthony Davis, the star center for the Pelicans, requested a trade 10 days before the deadline.The Pelicans, though, rejected all trade offers for him and instead hope to reap better players and draft picks in a deal this summer. Last week, Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry called the drama of it all a “dumpster fire.” On Friday, the Pelicans fired their general manager. On Saturday, Davis told reporters that his list of preferred destinations included the Knicks and the Los Angeles Lakers. Hours later, Silver said he would like trade demands and discussions to remain behind closed doors.In any case, the Davis situation only underscored how much the topic of player movement dominates the league — even in the middle of the season, and even after the trade deadline. Everyone here was fixated on what could happen just over four months from now — at the start of free agency.Will Kevin Durant leave the Warriors? Will Kawhi Leonard spurn the Toronto Raptors? Will Kyrie Irving bolt from the Boston Celtics? And, again, what about Davis?“No one likes to see an instance,” Silver said, “where a player is demanding that he be traded when he’s still in the middle of a contractual obligation to a team.”Silver made those remarks, and his wish for private trade discussions, at a news conference before Saturday night’s skills, dunk and 3-point competitions.The media forum, like the carefully coordinated outfits stars wore to events around town, has become part of the event’s routine. So has the roll call of courtside A-listers during the dunk contest; this year’s included the rappers Quavo, 2 Chainz, J. Cole and Gucci Mane.All-Star weekend was not always so structured — or extravagant. Paul Westphal recalled making his first trip to an All-Star Game in 1977 as a guard for the Phoenix Suns. The league hosted a modest dinner. Players received commemorative mugs. Anyone associated with the game stayed at the same hotel in downtown Milwaukee.“It wasn’t like it is now where the game takes over the whole city,” Westphal said.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar missed practice, Westphal said, then showed up about 20 minutes before the start of the game in a fur coat. Westphal helped seal his team’s win with a late steal against Pete Maravich. It was a moment he said he would never forget.This weekend, Westphal was in Charlotte, where he was named a finalist for the Basketball Hall of Fame. He said he was not planning to attend any parties.“Just dinner with friends,” he said.In Charlotte, the streets around the host arena, Spectrum Center, were choked with traffic. Concert fliers hung from every lamppost. And none of the guests, spread among numerous hotels at premium nightly rates, seemed to mind the cold weather as countless lines formed for restaurants, bars and pop-up musical performances.Given all the extracurriculars, it was easy to forget that basketball was the only reason anyone was here in the first place — and perhaps that was because the only legitimate basketball was being played in a college gymnasium a few miles from downtown. A group of elite teenage prospects, without much fanfare, had convened for the league’s annual Basketball Without Borders Global Camp.In all, 63 boys and girls from 31 countries played in front of scouts and executives who hoped to identify the sport’s next batch of stars.“There’s a lot of talent here,” said Brooks Meek, the N.B.A.’s vice president for international basketball operations.The spotlight will find them soon enough.Kevin Draper and Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben Shpigel and David WaldsteinDuke, Virginia and North Carolina — three No. 1 seeds from the Atlantic Coast Conference — opened the N.C.A.A. tournament with victories on Friday, but not before each one survived a scare. Virginia may have received the biggest shock: a year after it became the first No. 1 seed to lose its opening game in the men’s tournament, it had to rally from a halftime deficit to defeat Gardner-Webb, 71-56. Duke, the tournament’s top overall seed, fell behind No. 16 North Dakota State in the first half, but a burst led by the star freshman Zion Williamson (25 points) shook the Bison loose, and the Blue Devils cruised to an 85-62 win. “In the second half, we played beautiful basketball,” Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said.North Carolina, like Virginia, also trailed at halftime, but clawed its way back and won going away, 88-73.Other lower seeds had more luck: No. 10 Iowa, No. 11 Ohio State, the No. 12s Oregon and Liberty, and one No. 13 — U.C. Irvine — were among the double-digit seeds to win on Friday.North Carolina overcame its first-half struggles to advance against Iona, ensuring there would be no repeat of a No. 16-vs.-No. 1 upset this year.The Tar Heels, the Midwest Region’s No. 1 seed, trailed by five at halftime against Iona before dominating the second half to earn a trip to Sunday’s second round to face ninth-seeded Washington.U.N.C. was the last of the four No. 1 seeds to complete play. Gonzaga won easily in Thursday’s first round.Cameron Johnson had 21 points while the freshman Nassir Little had 19 off the bench for North Carolina, which shot 63 percent after halftime. Iona also cooled off, making just 5 of 20 3-pointers in the second half after going 10 of 21 in the first half.Ohio State went from barely making the N.C.A.A. tournament to a spot in the second round with an upset of sixth-seeded Iowa State. Kaleb Wesson had 21 points and 12 rebounds to lead the 11th-seeded Buckeyes (20-14).Keyshawn Woods added 19 points for Ohio State, which will play No. 3 seed Houston on Sunday.Iowa State (23-12) led only once in the second half but had a chance to send the game into overtime when Nick Weiler-Babb had an open attempt at a game-tying 3. His shot missed and ended the season for the Cyclones, who won the Big 12 tournament to earn their spot in the N.C.A.A.s.Ohio State’s win improved the Big Ten’s record to 7-1 in the first round; only Wisconsin lost, to Oregon.After three double-digit seeds won to open the day in San Jose, Calif., Virginia Tech brought some sanity to the site. The fourth-seeded Hokies raced out to a fast start and led No. 13 seed Saint Louis 40-18 at the half. Earlier in the day, No. 13 seed U.C. Irvine beat fourth-seeded Kansas State; 12th-seeded Oregon knocked off No. 5 Wisconsin; and No. 12 seed Liberty upset fifth-seeded Mississippi State.The only time four double-digit seeds won on the same day at the same location was in 2008, when the No. 12 seeds Villanova and Western Kentucky and the No. 13 seeds San Diego and Siena all won games in Tampa, Florida.The 7-foot-6 center Tacko Fall had 13 points, 18 rebounds and 5 blocks to lead ninth-seeded U.C.F. to its first N.C.A.A. tournament victory. The road gets tougher now: No. 1 Duke awaits on Sunday. But Central Florida (24-8) might have some karma, or at least some inside knowledge of the Blue Devils, on their side: Knights Coach Johnny Dawkins played on Mike Krzyzewski’s first Final Four team at Duke in 1986.Don’t look now but, for the third time, today, a No. 1 seed finds itself in a first-half hole. This time it’s North Carolina, the top seed in the Midwest: it gave up 10 3-pointers in the first half and trails Iona, 38-33, at the break.The Tar Heels shot just 33 percent in the first half and hit just 3 of 13 of their own attempts from beyond the arc.Rickey McGill led the way with 12 first-half points for Iona.It wasn’t that close in the end. Williamson, after blowing open the game almost single-handedly in the opening minutes of the second half, finished with 25 points, and R.J. Barrett had 26 and 14 rebounds. The Blue Devils led by only four points at halftime, at 31-27, when Williamson broke the game open by himself. He drove on two defenders for a layup and was fouled. When he missed the free throw, he got the rebound and dunked it. Moments later, Williamson ran down his own steal, dribbled behind his back, and made a remarkable layup that put Duke ahead by 40-27.North Dakota State, which fought hard for a half, simply couldn’t keep up. The Blue Devils will face the winner of Friday’s late game — Central Florida or Virginia Commonwealth — on Sunday.Liberty’s Caleb Homesley scored 14 of his career-high 30 points in the final seven minutes as the Flames roared back to upset Mississippi State in an East Region game in San Jose, Calif., becoming the third 12th seed to advance. Homesley led the comeback from a 10-point deficit, but the fifth-seeded Bulldogs regained the lead at 70-69 on Robert Woodard’s two free throws with 1:37 to go.Liberty’s Lovell Cabbil Jr. then made a 3-pointer to restore his team’s lead and then went 4 for 4 from the free-throw line in the final 14.2 seconds to help Liberty earn the first N.C.A.A. tournament victory in the program’s history.Two other No. 12 seeds, Murray State and Oregon, also won their first-round games. The N.C.A.A. said it was the fifth time the tournament has had three of the four 12th seeds had upset a No. 5 in the same year. The last time came in 2014.Corey Davis scored 26 points to help the third-seeded Cougars beat Georgia State in the Midwest Region.After reaching the national final in 1984, Houston went more than three decades without winning an N.C.A.A. tournament game. Now the Cougars have tournament wins in back-to-back seasons, and they are starting to resemble the program that has five Final Four appearances and produced stars like Elvin Hayes, Clyde Drexler and Hakeem Olajuwon.Fabian White had 14 points and 11 rebounds and Breaon Brady added 13 for Houston (32-3), which will face either Iowa State or Ohio State on Sunday.Williamson scored six points as Duke roared out of the locker room with a 9-0 run. A four-point lead is suddenly 13, and the Duke fans are breathing easier.Williamson grew up in Spartanburg, S.C., about a 90-minute drive from Columbia, where the game is being played at Colonial Life Arena. Williams played here in high school tournament games and said he never expected to play here in college, but he got the opportunity when Duke was sent to the Columbia regional as the top seed.Now he is starting to put on a show for his home state fans: one of his baskets during Duke’s run was a put-back dunk after he missed a free throw; another was one of Williamson’s signature hustle steal plays.On the latter, he tipped the ball away from North Dakota State’s Vinnie Shahid, outran the point guard to get the loose ball, dribbled once behind his back and then gently finger-rolled the ball into the basket. Then he swished a 3-pointer to give him a game-high 21 points on 10-for-13 shooting.Duke is pulling away now, and Williamson is the biggest reason why. DAVID WALDSTEINBlue Devils fans in Columbia, S.C., were nervous and uncharacteristically quiet with their team holding a slim, 31-27, lead at halftime. The sense was Duke might have underestimated North Dakota State, a tough, confident team that has, so far, refused to back down from the challenge of facing the best team in the country.N.D.S.U. guard Vinnie Shahid said Thursday that the Bison planned on winning the game, and he promised he and his teammates would compete. No one paid it much notice, but so far they have, especially on the defensive end, where Coach David Richman had his players switching up defenses and getting onto the chests of the Duke superstars in the first half.The Bison did a particularly good job of bracketing Duke power forward Zion Williamson with a small guard in front and a bigger player behind him. The point appears to be to keep Duke from making high-low entry passes into the big man. Late in the half, N.D.S.U. was in a 2-3 zone. DAVID WALDSTEINA 7-0 run capped by a Jordan Goldwire 3-pointer finally allows Duke to get its head out in front of a game and feisty North Dakota State. The Blue Devils lead by 31-27 at halftime, and Coach Mike Krzyzewski is hoarse enough in his halftime interview to suggest he has done some shouting and plans to do more. Still, he’s got a four-point lead, and Williamson and R.J. Barrett both have 10 points. Considering the alternatives, and the fact that North Dakota State played a full game in a different state two days ago, and he’s got something to work with. North Dakota State's Vinnie Shahid leads all scorers with 15 points. The junior averages 13 points a game.A result that could be considered a significant upset according to seed — No. 12 Oregon’s 72-54 win over No. 5 Wisconsin in the South Region — somehow did not feel like a huge surprise; the Ducks had won the Pac-12 tournament last weekend after all, and their victory Friday was their ninth in a row. Payton Pritchard led Oregon with 19 points; the Ducks will play another upset winner, U.C. Irvine, in a rare 12 vs. 13 matchup on Sunday.Buffalo beat Arizona State, 91-74, and while Coach Nate Oats was surely thrilled with the victory, he wasn’t a big fan of having it come at the expense of the Sun Devils, and his former boss Bobby Hurley.Buffalo lost only three times this season, and spent most of the year in the Top 25. The teams were tied at 14 in the first half before the Bulls went on a 17-5 run to take control. Nick Perkins and Jeremy Harris each scored 21 points for No. 6 Buffalo, which will play No. 3 seed Texas Tech on Sunday for a spot in the Round of 16.The hardest part for Oats may have been the postgame handshake after the rout. Oats, a former high school math teacher, got the Buffalo job after serving as an assistant on Hurley’s staff at the school. They led the team to its first N.C.A.A. tournament berth in 2015, a run that most likely got Hurley the Arizona State job. Now Oats has led Buffalo back to the tournament three times on his own. But he wasn’t happy about a reunion.“It’s not ideal,” Oats said earlier this week. “I don’t want to coach against him. There’s a reason we haven’t scheduled any games against each other. It is what it is, but I’d like to see him win. I’m a friend of his. He gave me my shot in this business, I’m loyal to him. I pull for him. Shoot, I helped him with some recruits down there.”Virginia spent the last year waiting for Friday, a chance to atone for its unprecedented early exit from the 2018 N.C.A.A. tournament, when it became the first No. 1 seed to lose to a No. 16. When that chance arrived, the Cavaliers never led in the first half against Gardner-Webb. But they persisted, rolling to a 71-66 victory after outscoring the Bulldogs by 21 points after halftime.De’Andre Hunter — who missed last year’s disappointing loss to Maryland-Baltimore County with an injury — scored 23 points to lead Virginia, which will face No. 9 Oklahoma in the second round on Sunday. BEN SHPIGELAdmiral Schofield scored 19 points and Jordan Bone added 16 as Tennessee held off a 3-pointer-fueled Colgate surge in the second half. Jordan Burns carried Colgate with 32 points, shooting 12 for 20 from the field and 8 of 12 from behind the 3-point line.The Cavaliers have dug out of their hole and taken their first lead of the second half at 39-38.The first major upset of the N.C.A.A. tournament came from a commuter school perhaps best known for its quirky mascot. The No. 13 California Irvine Anteaters ousted No. 4 Kansas State in the South Region, winning by 70-64 to earn the first N.C.A.A. tournament victory in the program’s history.A year ago, Irvine went 18-17. This year, it rolled to 31 wins, including its current run of 17 in a row. The Anteaters were led by 19 points each from Evan Leonard and Max Hazzard, who drilled a vital 3-pointer with about 90 seconds left that extended Irvine’s lead to 66-61. Kansas State played without one of its stars, Dean Wade, an all-Big 12 forward sidelined by a foot injury.Hazzard,whose grandfather Walt Hazzard won a championship for U.C.L.A. and played for the Lakers, is one of four Irvine players with N.B.A. bloodlines. Spencer Rivers, the son of Clippers Coach Doc Rivers and younger brother of Houston Rockets guard Austin Rivers, is another. He spoke to his father about the opportunity in front of the Anteaters on Monday.“He was saying, ‘Enjoy the moment and try to take the best advantage of it as you can,’ ” Spencer Rivers told reporters. “Make it last as long as possible as well, he was saying. You don’t want to just be happy by being there. You want to try to win the game.” BEN SHPIGELStop us if you’ve seen this before. Could it really be happening again? A year ago, Virginia became the first No. 1 men’s seed to lose in the first round when it fell to Maryland-Baltimore County. This year, Virginia a No. 1 seed again and it is trailing again, this time to No. 16 Gardner Webb. The Runnin’ Bulldogs took a 26-14 lead with 7:40 left to play in the first half, and are playing with a lot of confidence.But who are they, and where do they come from?Gardner-Webb, which is in the N.C.A.A. tournament for the first time, is located 128 miles from Columbia, S.C., where Friday’s game is being played. It is just over the border in North Carolina, so the stands are packed with fans in red and black, and they are loving it. The Bulldogs have a swarming defense and they are feeding off the fan support. Gardner-Webb made 13 of its first 22 shots.If the Cavaliers were not tight coming into the game, they look it now.Third-seeded Texas Tech shook off a slow first half to roll past 14th-seeded Northern Kentucky in the West Region. Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, scored 29 points on 10-for-17 shooting. The Red Raiders shot 53 percent from the field over all.In one of the biggest first-round victories by a No. 9 seed in N.C.A.A. tournament history, Oklahoma blitzed No. 8 Mississippi, 95-72, in the South Region. Paced by four starters who scored at least 18 points, the Sooners raced to a 12-0 lead, went up by 17 at halftime and led by as many as 29 in the second half. Christian James and Rashard Odomes each had 20 points for Oklahoma. Terence Davis had 17 for the Rebels.According to David Worlock, the N.C.A.A.’s director of media coordination/statistics, the Sooners’ 23-point margin of victory equaled Mississippi State’s over Stanford in 2005 and trailed only Purdue’s 24, over L.S.U in 2003, and Pittsburgh’s 29, over Colorado in 2014. Next up for Oklahoma is a with No. 1 Virginia, which beat No. 16 Gardner-Webb.Sure, both were to end the first half. But UC-Irvine and Kansas State are tied at halftime, 30-30, after this Max Hazzard 3-pointer:More of this type of drama please. Maybe try at the second-half buzzer next?The Big Ten hasn’t won the N.C.A.A. tournament since Michigan State’s title in 2000, but it has had seven teams lose in the championship game since then.In 2002, Maryland beat Indiana in the final, but the Terrapins, then in the A.C.C., weren’t a member of the Big Ten at the time.After that, Illinois lost in 2005, Ohio State in 2007, Michigan State in 2009, Michigan in 2013, Wisconsin in 2015 and Michigan last year, to Villanova.On the first day of the N.C.A.A. tournament, Big Ten teams went 5-0. The second day began with Iowa’s extending the conference’s run of dominance, as the Hawkeyes pulled away late from Cincinnati to win, 79-72, in the South Region. After trailing by 13 points in the first half and by 5 at halftime, Iowa made seven 3-pointers in the second half, including one by Joe Wieskamp that powered an 8-0 run that extended the Hawkeyes’ lead to 73-64 with about a minute remaining.“I thought our ball movement and the shots we got in the second half were better,” Iowa Coach Fran McCaffrey said. “And we made them.”Iowa advances to play No. 2 Tennessee. BEN SHPIGELCBS and Turner Sports released Saturday’s N.C.A.A. tournament schedule late last night:Jacksonville: (6) Maryland vs. (3) L.S.U., 12:10 p.m. (CBS); (7) Wofford vs. (2) Kentucky, after first game (CBS)Des Moines: (10) Florida vs. (2) Michigan, 5:15 p.m. (CBS); (10) Minnesota vs. (2) Michigan St., after first game (CBS)Hartford: (12) Murray St. vs. (4) Florida St., 6:10 p.m. (TNT); (6) Villanova vs. (3) Purdue, after first game (TNT)Salt Lake City: (9) Baylor vs. (1) Gonzaga, 7:10 p.m. (TBS); (5) Auburn vs. (4) Kansas, after first game (TBS)Michigan State’s Tom Izzo is known for his feisty, old school, in-your-face coaching style. Sometimes Izzo gets after his players in ways not often seen anymore. That was what happened Thursday between Izzo and the freshman forward Aaron Henry.Unhappy with Henry’s effort in the second half of a tight first-round game with Bradley in Des Moines, during a timeout Izzo approached Henry on the court, yelled at him and pointed a finger toward his face. Henry appeared puzzled, unsure what Izzo was angry about. Guard Cassius Winston, the Big Ten Player of the Year, jumped between his teammate and his coach and gently guided Izzo away. Later in the timeout, with players seated around him, Izzo lurched toward Henry again. Multiple players eased Izzo back to his seat.Henry responded in the final three minutes with a key basket in the lane and two foul shots as Michigan State, the East Region’s No. 2 seed, held off Bradley, 76-65. Afterward, Henry and his teammates shrugged off Izzo’s tirade. But the video of the incident had created a stir on social media by then, sparking conversation about the behavior of Izzo, who has coached the Spartans to 22 consecutive N.C.A.A. tournament appearances and seven Final Fours. Not everyone thought the coach had done anything wrong. He absolutely did not.“When you are a freshman now, at this time of year, you don’t make mental mistakes on things we’re telling a guy which way he goes, or not running back,” Izzo said. “There are some things Aaron didn’t do a very good job of.“And yet, you know what? I did get after him and he did respond and he did make a couple of big buckets and he did make a couple of big free throws, but that’s not good enough. This is one-and-done time. The ‘my bads’ are out the window. If it’s my fault because that guy played better and it’s my bad because I walked back and didn’t sprint back, then it is your bad and you’re going to hear about it. So that’s what it was.”A follow-up question further annoyed Izzo, who concluded his answer with this:“I get a kick out of you guys,” he said. “Get after somebody because you’re trying to hold them accountable. I don’t know what kind of business you’re in, because if I was head of a newspaper and you didn’t do your job you would be held accountable. That’s the way it is.” PAT BORZIWire reports includedBen Shpigel is a sports reporter and has covered the N.F.L. and the New York Jets since 2011. He has also covered the New York Yankees and, before that, the Mets. He previously worked for The Dallas Morning News.  @benshpigel Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Marc SteinJoshua Kushner, the venture capitalist whose older brother is President Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, became a minority shareholder of the N.B.A.’s Memphis Grizzlies earlier this season, according to four people familiar with the matter.Jesse Derris, a spokesman for Joshua Kushner, confirmed the purchase, as did a spokesman for the N.B.A.“Brandon Arrindell and Joshua Kushner recently, in their respective individual capacities, purchased minority stakes in the Grizzlies,” said a team spokesman in a statement.Kushner, 33, agreed with Grizzlies owner Robert Pera to purchase a share of the team as a limited partner in late 2018, according to two of the people, who weren’t authorized to discuss the partnership publicly. The transaction closed at the end of February.Neither Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, nor his father, Charles, who spent 14 months in prison for illegal campaign donations, tax evasion and witness tampering, is involved in the Grizzlies, according to the people. However, Joshua Kushner’s wealth can be traced to his family’s real estate fortune, which funded other investments he has made. Members of the Kushner family have previously lodged unsuccessful bids to buy the Miami Marlins, Los Angeles Dodgers and the Nets when the team was in New Jersey.According to The Daily Memphian, which first reported the agreement, Brandon Arrindell, a principal at a Memphis investment management firm, also purchased a stake in the team.The Kushner investment comes at a time when the relationship between top N.B.A. players and the White House is increasingly tense. No N.B.A. team has visited the White House since Trump became president. The N.B.A. superstars LeBron James and Stephen Curry have engaged in public spats with Trump; James has referred to him as “a bum.”Joshua Kushner’s politics are very different from his brother’s. Joshua Kushner is a lifelong Democrat and said he did not vote for Trump in 2016. He participated in both the first Women’s March and the March for Our Lives protests.The Kushners, especially Jared, have close ties to N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver. Silver attends sporting events with Jared Kushner, he told The New Yorker, and Kushner advised the N.B.A. on a real estate search. Kushner, who owned The New York Observer before selling it to his family’s trust, also once ordered the deletion of a benign article about Silver purchasing a new apartment, according to BuzzFeed.Joshua Kushner is a mainstay of the New York tech scene, founding the investment firm Thrive Capital, which has $2.5 billion under management, and cofounding Oscar Health, a health start-up. He was brought into the Grizzlies ownership group by Pera, who is also part of the New York tech scene. The deal stemmed from an unusual arrangement Pera had with previous limited partners of the Grizzlies.Pera agreed to purchase the Memphis Grizzlies from Michael Heisley in June 2012 for $377 million. Pera was 34, and made his wealth as the founder of Ubiquiti Networks, a New York-based wireless technology company. He founded Ubiquiti in 2005, and took it public in 2011.But Pera, despite holding a controlling interest in the Grizzlies, purchased only about 25 percent of the franchise and put up just $45 million of his own money, according to The Memphis Flyer. Pera put together a large ownership group to pay for the rest. Steve Kaplan, a Los Angeles investor, and Daniel Straus, the founder of multiple health care companies, each bought a stake worth roughly 14 percent, while a consortium of more than 20 local investors bought the rest.The agreement between Pera, Kaplan and Straus included an unusual buy-sell clause that allowed both Kaplan and Straus to exercise a right to purchase control of the team after five years. Once exercised, one or both of the limited partners could set a new valuation for the franchise. At that price, Pera had to either buy their shares or sell them his.In November 2017, both Kaplan and Straus triggered the clause. After negotiations between the three were unsuccessful, Pera announced in April 2018 that he would retain his majority ownership. ESPN reported he had bought his former partners out at a $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion valuation of the franchise.That meant Pera was forced to raise roughly $375 million — about the same amount the entire team was valued at in 2012 — to purchase the Straus and Kaplan shares. It seems he brought on minority investors to help shoulder that financial commitment.The Grizzlies have slumped to a record of 29-42 after a promising start and will miss the N.B.A. playoffs for the second consecutive season. In February, Memphis traded its former All-Star center Marc Gasol to Toronto and is widely expected to trade the last remaining link to the club’s playoff successes — Mike Conley — in the off-season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSpeaking to local media around midday Thursday, Memphis Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said he hadn't talked with team owner Robert Pera yet but he could make one declaration: head coach J.B. Bickerstaff would return for a second season.Two hours later, that decision had changed, and several other moves were made.The Grizzlies fired Bickerstaff and demoted Wallace to a scouting role.Memphis also named Jason Wexler as team president with "oversight of both business and basketball operations," the team said in a statement. The Grizzlies promoted Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations, with former VP John Hollinger reassigned to a senior advisory position."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a reenergized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."After David Fizdale was fired, Bickerstaff was promoted to interim head coach in November 2017, then given the job permanently last May 1. The team went 15-48 under Bickerstaff in 2017-18 and 33-49 this season.The Grizzlies traded franchise stalwart Marc Gasol at the February deadline, and their shake-ups might not be over.Veteran point guard Mike Conley said this week he doesn't want to stick around Memphis to endure a rebuild and is ready to turn the franchise over to youngster Jaren Jackson Jr.Selected by the Grizzlies with the No. 4 overall pick of the 2007 draft, Conley has participated in the playoffs in seven seasons, with four of them resulting in a first-round ouster."I want to win a championship, No. 1," he told reporters. "I love Jaren Jackson Jr. I've done a lot of that, been a part of it. At some point you have to pass that torch."Conley is due to make $32.5 million next season.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNASHVILLE, Tenn. — Jerry Stackhouse had a couple interviews already lined up for possible NBA head coaching jobs. He says he decided to take a college job because of his relationship with Vanderbilt's new athletic director and the opportunity to turnaround the Commodores men's program.Stackhouse said during a news conference on Monday that he loves is teaching and coaching basketball, and he wants to bring back Memorial magic to the oldest arena in the Southeastern Conference.His lone head coaching experience is two years in the G League where he got to know a fellow North Carolina graduate in Malcolm Turner, who was the league's president. Turner took over as athletic director at Vanderbilt on Feb. 1.Stackhouse has been an assistant with the NBA's Memphis Grizzlies this season, and the 18-year NBA veteran also was an assistant in Toronto.Vanderbilt is coming off the worst season ever at 9-23, finishing the season on a 20-game skid.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSpeaking to local media around midday Thursday, Memphis Grizzlies general manager Chris Wallace said he hadn't talked with team owner Robert Pera yet, but he could make one declaration: Head coach J.B. Bickerstaff would return for a second season. Two hours later, that decision had changed, and several other moves were made.The Grizzlies fired Bickerstaff and demoted Wallace to a scouting role.Memphis also named Jason Wexler as team president with "oversight of both business and basketball operations," the team said in a statement. The Grizzlies promoted Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations, with former VP John Hollinger reassigned to a senior advisory position."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a reenergized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."--Sacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said.Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs. The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final postseason spot in the West.--Larry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed to part ways."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.--Cardiologists have cleared Chicago Bulls forward Lauri Markkanen to resume full basketball activities, the team announced.Markkanen, 21, experienced extreme fatigue and an accelerated heart rate during a game in Toronto on March 26. A battery of tests conducted at Chicago's Rush University Medical Center and Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore determined that dehydration and nutrient deficiency caused his symptoms.The 7-footer missed the rest of the regular season, finishing his second campaign with averages of 18.7 points and 9.0 rebounds in 52 games.--The Phoenix Suns officially named James Jones as general manager, giving him control over all basketball operations for the team.The Suns also added Jeff Bower as senior vice president of basketball operations and retained Trevor Bukstein as assistant general manager. Both will report to Jones, the team announced in a statement.Jones, 38, who played 14 seasons in the league and won three NBA championships, had served as Phoenix's VP of basketball operations the past two seasons. He shared GM duties this past season with Bukstein.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMEMPHIS, Tenn. — The Memphis Grizzlies started the offseason Thursday with plenty of questions to answer, then controlling owner Robert Pera added to the to-do list by firing coach J.B. Bickerstaff as part of a front-office shake-up that demoted general manager Chris Wallace to scout.The Grizzlies announced the moves after both Bickerstaff and Wallace spoke to reporters following a second straight season outside the playoffs. After a 12-5 start, Memphis plummeted and finished 33-49, tied with New Orleans and Dallas.Wallace had said earlier that Bickerstaff would be returning after doing a "terrific job." But Pera didn't agree and restructured the front office a few hours later."In order to put our team on the path to sustainable success, it was necessary to change our approach to basketball operations," Pera said in a statement. "I look forward to a re-energized front office and fresh approach to Memphis Grizzlies basketball under new leadership, while retaining the identity and values that have distinguished our team."Bickerstaff was named interim coach in November 2017 after the Grizzlies fired David Fizdale . He was given the job without the interim title last May. Now Memphis is looking for a fourth head coach since choosing not to renew Lionel Hollins' contract after he led the Grizzlies to their lone Western Conference final appearance in 2013.The Grizzlies also announced that Jason Wexler will be president of the Grizzlies overseeing both basketball and business operations, and Zachary Z. Kleiman replaces John Hollinger as executive vice president of basketball operations with Hollinger moving to an advisory role. The Grizzlies are keeping former player Tayshaun Prince as a special adviser."No words," Grizzlies veteran point guard Mike Conley wrote on Twitter.Memphis began this season with Wallace predicting the Grizzlies would be a playoff team.The Grizzlies wound up trading away center Marc Gasol at the trade deadline. With other trades and injuries that left nine rotation players benched with injuries for Wednesday night's season finale in a 132-117 win over Golden State, Memphis tied its own NBA record for most players used in one season — set last season — again at 28.Memphis also set the NBA mark with 20 different leading scorers, topping the old record of 16 set by the Knicks in 2014-15.While Memphis kept Conley after a frenzy of speculation about his future before the trade deadline, that chatter is about to start again. And Conley, 31, sounds ready to consider his best interest about what happens next with Memphis in full-blown rebuilding mode."I honestly don't think that would be the ideal situation," Conley said. "Ideally, I don't think anybody in my situation would want to go through that again, (since) I don't know how many years I have left."Conley helped his potential value by averaging 24 points and 6.5 assists over his final 16 games. Conley still has two seasons left on the max deal he signed in July 2016,."I'm pretty much getting ready for it, getting ready for that storm ...," Conley said of the coming speculation. "In the last few weeks, it's become more and more like knocking on the door. It's right around the corner. This stuff is going to fire up again. Rumors, all that stuff is going to pop up."Wallace oversaw the signing of Chandler Parsons to a four-year, $94 million deal that has seen the forward play 95 games combined over the first three seasons.The Grizzlies spent much of the season trying to finish outside the top eight spots in the draft to finally pay off a 2015 midseason trade for Jeff Green that still requires a first-round pick to be sent to Boston. The selection is protected if Memphis finished anywhere from No. 1 to 8 in the draft, and the Grizzlies want to fulfill that obligation this June.Memphis wound up in a three-way tie with Dallas and New Orleans for the 7-9 position. Whether the Grizzlies land in the ninth position or with the selection protected won't be known until after the May 14 draft lottery.The next Grizzlies coach will have Jaren Jackson Jr. who showed flashes as the fourth overall draft pick last summer before a deep thigh bruise sidelined him after 58 games. Dillon Brooks also was limited to 18 games by injuries, and Kyle Anderson, signed to a four-year deal last summer, played only 43 games and will have surgery next week on his right shoulder.Jonas Valanciunas, acquired in the February trade for Gasol, has a $17.6 million player option next season.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Tech standout Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, announced Thursday he will forgo his last two seasons in Lubbock and declare for the 2019 NBA Draft.The 6-foot-5, 195-pound guard made the announcement during a press conference in Lubbock, Texas.Culver helped lead the Red Raiders to a share of the Big 12 regular-season title and was effective in this year's NCAA Tournament, where Texas Tech fell to Virginia 85-77 in overtime in the national championship game.On the season, Culver averaged 18.5 points, 6.4 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game while the Red Raiders set a school record with 31 wins.--Also announcing his plans to declare for the draft was 18-year-old Russian Nikita Mikhailovskii, according to a report by ESPN.The 6-foot-8, 180-pound wing is trying to become the first Russian player drafted since 2013 when Sergey Karasev was chosen with the 19th pick by the Cleveland Cavaliers.Mikhailovskii spent the past season playing in the mostly Russian VTB United League and FIBA Europe Cup, averaging 7.8 points in 16.8 minutes while shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range in 45 games.--The Memphis Grizzlies hired two former general managers to their front office, adding Rich Cho as vice president of strategy and Glen Grunwald as senior adviser.Cho is a former GM of the Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers, and Grunwald was GM of the New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors.The Grizzlies demoted former GM Chris Wallace to a scouting role in a flurry of moves last week, including the firing of head coach J.B. Bickerstaff and the promotion of Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations.--Los Angeles Clippers assistant general manager Trent Redden reportedly is close to interviewing for a senior front-office role with the New Orleans Pelicans.The Clippers gave the Pelicans permission to discuss the position with Redden, ESPN reported, citing league sources.David Griffin, the Pelicans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, worked closely with Redden when they with the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 2016 NBA championship season. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski noted that Griffin is expected to be "aggressive" in pursuing Redden.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMEMPHIS, Tenn. — Salah Mejri scored a career-high 19 points, including the tying basket in regulation and the first seven points of overtime as the Dallas Mavericks defeated the Memphis Grizzlies 129-127 on Sunday night.Mejri, who had nine rebounds and four blocks, was 7 of 12 from the floor and made a pair of 3-pointers. Trey Burke led the Mavericks with 24 points, 14 in the fourth quarter and overtime. Justin Jackson and Dorian Finney-Smith added 16 points apiece, and Finney-Smith grabbed 12 rebounds.Delon Wright had his second consecutive triple-double with 20 points, 13 rebounds and 12 assists for the Grizzlies. Justin Holiday paced Memphis with a career-high 30 points.Memphis led 112-110 after Ivan Rabb hit one of two free throws with 54.5 seconds left in regulation. After four misses inside by the Mavericks, they pulled even when Mejri scored on a putback with 1.5 seconds remaining.That sent the game to overtime after Memphis couldn't get a shot off before the horn sounded ending regulation.In the extra period, Mejri scored on a pair of dunks and then a 3-pointer to give Dallas an early lead. Memphis tied it but could never go ahead, and the Mavericks made three of four free throws in the final 15 seconds.Wright's 3-point attempt as the horn sounded was short.TIP-INSMavericks: Dirk Nowitzki, who only played in the first half, has appeared in 76 games against the Grizzlies — the most regular-season games against the franchise by any NBA player. He is also second in scoring against the Grizzlies behind Kobe Bryant. . Nowitzki grabbed his 10,000th defensive rebound in the first quarter, becoming the fifth NBA player to reach that milestone. . Dallas rookie Luka Doncic missed his fourth game in the last five with a variety of injuries, most notably a bruised right thigh.Grizzlies: A 3-pointer in the second quarter set a franchise record for 3s in a season with 768. The previous mark of 767 was set in 2016-17. ... Bruno Caboclo had a career-high 17 rebounds. His previous best was 13 on March 27 against Golden State. . Point guard Mike Conley missed his fourth straight game with left ankle soreness.UP NEXTMavericks: Host the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday in their final home game of the season.Grizzlies: Play at Detroit on Tuesday in their last road game.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDETROIT — Andre Drummond had 20 points and 17 rebounds and Ish Smith matched a season high with 22 points, helping the Detroit Pistons come back from a 22-point deficit to beat the Memphis Grizzlies 100-93 Tuesday night and cling to a spot in the playoffs.Detroit can clinch a postseason bid by closing the regular season with a win Wednesday night at New York.The Pistons put their postseason position in peril by losing four straight before rallying to beat the short-handed Grizzlies.Detroit star Blake Griffin was limited to five points and two rebounds in 18-plus minutes, barely playing in the second half because of his injured left knee.Luke Kennard scored 15 points off the bench and Reggie Jackson had 12 points before going to the bench as Smith flourished in the final quarter.Detroit opened the fourth with a 16-3 run to pull within three points. Smith made a game-tying 3-pointer and a go-ahead jumper midway through the quarter.Drummond made two free throws with 2:33 left to put the Pistons up 91-89. Smith made a jumper to give Detroit a five-point lead with 50 seconds left and a runner to put it ahead 97-93 with 28 seconds remaining.Delon Wright and Bruno Caboclo each scored 15 points for the Grizzlies, who used just four reserves with banged-up players such as Mike Conley, Joakim Noah and rookie Jaren Jackson out with injuries.Even though Detroit had a lot to play for — its first playoff berth in three years and second in a decade — the Grizzlies played with more effort and led 32-20 after the first quarter and 57-38 at halftime.The Pistons picked up the intensity in the third quarter, outscoring Memphis by four to cut their deficit to 79-64.TIP-INSGrizzlies: Tyler Zeller fouled out midway through the fourth quarter with 13 points and six reboundsPistons: Team owner Tom Gores attended the game, cheering for his team and complaining about calls to officials. Gores hosted 40 college students as part of the Flint Promise scholarship program, which he has funded in part with $1 million.UP NEXTGrizzlies: Close regular season against Golden State on Wednesday.Pistons: End regular season at New York on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDwyane Wade was hoping to extend his legendary career into at least four postseason games.Instead, Wade's career will end Wednesday night when the Heat visit the playoff-bound Brooklyn Nets, who can clinch the sixth seed in the Eastern Conference.Wade, 37, announced his retirement on Sept 16 before training camp began, and this season has been a farewell tour filled with a few magical moments and some postgame jersey exchanges.Despite the good feelings of celebrating Wade's storied career, which began as the No. 5 overall draft pick in 2003 and includes NBA championships in 2006, 2012 and 2013, the Heat were unable to do enough to reach the postseason this year.Miami was formally eliminated Tuesday night as Wade's career was celebrated in front of home fans for the final time. Wade scored 30 points in his first start of the season in a 122-99 rout of the Philadelphia 76ers, exited to a standing ovation in the final minute and exchanged jerseys with Jimmy Butler."I'm still just amazed, even after all these years," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "I've seen him go into his bag of tricks so many times and just compartmentalize. But I'm truly amazed that he was able to perform like that tonight."Wade's final moments in front of the home fans occurred after the Detroit Pistons (40-41) stormed back from a 22-point deficit to beat the Memphis Grizzlies and eliminate the Heat (39-42).Miami will miss the postseason for the third time in five seasons since LeBron James returned to Cleveland in 2014.The Heat were one game over .500 three times but only reached the .500 mark once since Jan. 27 and were done in by losing four straight before Tuesday.Brooklyn (41-40) will face either third-seeded Philadelphia or second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs. The Nets are even with Orlando but own the head-the-head tiebreaker and would finish sixth with a win or if the Magic lose Wednesday at Charlotte.The Nets are in this position because of what unfolded in a challenging road back-to-back set. After getting a five-point win at Milwaukee on Saturday, Brooklyn led most of the way and celebrated clinching a playoff berth with a 108-96 victory at Indiana on Sunday."To be honest, it is a big moment for us and a big moment for the organization, from where we've come from in the last couple of years, the improvement that we've had individually and collectively," Nets guard Joe Harris said at practice Tuesday. "Just to clinch a playoff spot, it's a big moment for the organization for sure, and we're all very happy. But at the same time, we still have Miami left to finish out the year the right way, and we still want to make some noise in the playoffs and make it competitive."By clinching Sunday, the Nets are in a position to rest players, and two may be out. DeMarre Carroll will sit out due to a sprained right wrist while Harris -- who leads the NBA in 3-point shooting percentage -- is questionable because of a sore right foot.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressKyrie Irving scored 37 points and the Boston Celtics rallied late in the fourth quarter to beat the Indiana Pacers by 99-91 on Wednesday night. The win gave Boston a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven, first-round seriesComing out of a timeout and with a chance to tie, the Pacers’ Wesley Matthews threw an inbounds pass into the bench on the other side of the court with 12.1 seconds left. On the ensuing play, the Celtics’ Al Horford passed to Jayson Tatum, who was fouled on a two-handed dunk. He completed the three-point play to make it 97-91 with 8.8 seconds left.The Pacers turned it over again and the Celtics were able to close out the game at the free throw line.Tatum scored 26 points, including a thunderous dunk down the stretch to help punctuate a 10-0 run by Boston over the final five minutes.[Read: Jayson Tatum has a daily reminder of the booming dunk he delivered on LeBron James last year.]Bojan Bogdanovic led Indiana with 23 points. Thaddeus Young added 15 points.Indiana led by 79-68 entering the fourth. Horford opened the final period scoring on a hook shot in the lane and Tyreke Evans responded with a 3-pointer on Indiana’s first possession.But then Boston caught fire, using a 16-0 run, including eight straight by Irving, to take an 86-82 lead with 5:04 to play. Indiana missed 10 straight shots during the run, finally breaking a nearly eight-minute scoring drought with a 3-pointer by Matthews in front of the Celtics’ bench.Horford had been a game-time decision with an illness, but was able to remain in the Celtics’ starting lineup. He was noticeably a step slower at the outset and didn’t take his first shot until late in the second quarter. He didn’t score his first points until the fourth, finishing with four points, 10 rebounds and four assists for the game.Game 3 is Friday in Indiana.BUCKS 120, PISTONS 99 Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points in Milwaukee’s big third quarter and the Bucks beat the Detroit Pistons, 120-99, on Wednesday night to take a 2-0 lead in the first-round playoff series.Eric Bledsoe led the Bucks with 27 points, and Khris Middleton had 24. Milwaukee is trying win a playoff series for the first time since 2001.Luke Kennard had 19 points for Detroit. Reggie Jackson and Andre Drummond each added 18, and Drummond had 16 rebounds. Detroit star Blake Griffin sat out again with a left knee injury, but received a technical for the second straight game for arguing from the bench.After scoring 10 points and playing only 14 minutes in the first half because of foul trouble, Antetokounmpo scored Milwaukee’s first seven points in the third quarter. The Bucks outscored Detroit 35-17 in the period to take a 93-76 lead into the fourth.Detroit clawed within seven in the fourth before the Bucks put it away, capped by a hard drive by Antetokounmpo on a break. He banked in an awkward reverse-angle shot while crashing to the floor after being fouled by Drummond. He competed the three-point play it make it 105-87.Game 3 is Saturday night in Detroit.GRIZZLIES HIRE EXECUTIVES The Memphis Grizzlies have hired Rich Cho as vice president of basketball strategy and Glen Grunwald as a senior adviser within the franchise’s basketball operations department.Cho is a former Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers general manager. Grunwald was general manager of the Knicks and the Toronto Raptors.Before coming to Portland, Cho was an assistant general manager with the Seattle SuperSonics and continued in that role when the franchise became the Oklahoma City Thunder. Grunwald worked with the Knicks from 2006-13, serving as executive vice president and general manager for the final two seasons of that stretch. He was Toronto’s general manager from 1997 to 2004.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe Philadelphia 76ers made a bold move in the early hours of Wednesday morning to try to seize control of the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference by trading for Tobias Harris, the Los Angeles Clippers’ dynamic forward.In his second trade this season for a player who can become a free agent in July, Philadelphia General Manager Elton Brand surrendered two future first-round picks and two second-round picks in a six-player deal. The clear headliner, though, is Harris, who will join Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, J.J. Redick and Jimmy Butler, November’s acquisition, in what threatens to be the league’s most potent starting lineup outside of Golden State.The cost for Philadelphia was significant. The Sixers gave up their first-round pick in 2020 and an unprotected first-round pick in 2021, which they have from the Miami Heat, along with Wilson Chandler, Mike Muscala and Landry Shamet, a rookie guard. In return, Philadelphia will receive Harris, Boban Marjanovic and Mike Scott.“We are in a unique position to contend now, and we think this trade positions us well for the postseason,” Brand said in a statement.Philadelphia entered Wednesday’s play as the East’s No. 5 seed at 34-20, six games behind Milwaukee (39-13). The Sixers’ twofold challenge now will be establishing a chemistry among its new five-man core in the 28 games left before the playoffs and then re-signing Harris and Butler this summer after making two of this season’s biggest trades to get them.Harris emerged as an All-Star contender for the Clippers this season by averaging 20.9 points and 7.9 rebounds per game. His move to Philadelphia gives the Sixers another much-needed shooter (.496 from the field and .434 from 3-point range) alongside Redick.In making this trade, the Clippers ultimately decided that the draft picks Philadelphia offered were too valuable to pass up as they prepare for a big summer in which they are widely considered to be the league’s strongest threat to lure Kawhi Leonard away from the Toronto Raptors in free agency.The Clippers, at 30-25, have been one of this season’s surprise teams and sit at No. 8 in the Western Conference. But earlier this week, they also were named as one of four teams that Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans is willing to sign with long-term. This deal adds two more potentially enticing trade chips for the Clippers to offer the Pelicans for Davis — who has requested a trade — or to use in pursuit of other elite players.With Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline approaching, teams across the league, especially Philadelphia’s top rivals in the East, are running out of time to make their own moves to try to keep pace.The Boston Celtics, according to numerous reports, have been urging the Pelicans not to trade Davis until after the season, since league rules prevent Boston from trading for Davis while both he and Celtics guard Kyrie Irving are playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. The Toronto Raptors, meanwhile, have reportedly expressed trade interest in the very available Memphis Grizzlies duo of Marc Gasol and Mike Conley.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy Field Level MediaKyle Lowry scored a game-high 22 points and hit the 3-pointer with 7 minutes 3 seconds remaining that gave the Toronto Raptors the lead for good Saturday night in a 104-99 win over the Knicks at Madison Square Garden.Kevin Knox scored 20 points, and DeAndre Jordan posted a double-double with 10 points and 18 rebounds for the Knicks, who tied a franchise record by losing their 16th straight game.Serge Ibaka had a double-double (15 points and 13 rebounds) for the Raptors, who have the second-best record in the Eastern Conference (41-16) and have won four consecutive games. Danny Green scored 14 points and sank three straight 3-pointers in the fourth for Toronto. Norman Powell also had 14 points, and Kawhi Leonard (11) and Pascal Siakam (10) also scored in double figures.Marc Gasol, playing his first game for the Raptors since he was acquired from the Memphis Grizzlies on Thursday, scored 7 points and pulled down 6 rebounds in 19 minutes. He came off the bench for the first time since his rookie season in 2008-9.Mitchell Robinson scored 15 points, Kadeem Allen added 14 points and Dennis Smith Jr. chipped in with 13 points and 6 assists for the Knicks, who have the worst record in the N.B.A. (10-45) and have dropped 24 of 25 and 29 of their last 31 games.Despite the vast difference in fortunes, the Knicks gave the Raptors all they could handle.After Leonard opened the game with a 3-pointer, the Knicks scored the next 14 points. They also tied the game three times early in the fourth quarter before Robinson’s three-point play gave them an 86-85 lead — their first since a 38-36 advantage with 3:48 left in the second quarter.Lowry responded for the Raptors with his go-ahead 3-pointer. After Jordan missed two free throws, Green hit three 3-pointers during a 9-4 run — interrupted only by two free throws and a layup from Allen — to give Toronto a 97-90 lead with 3:28 left.The Knicks closed to 99-96 on Knox’s 3-pointer with 1:59 left. They had two chances to make it a 1-point game, but Mario Hezonja and Smith each missed jumpers, and the Raptors then made five of their final six free throws.SUPERLATIVES APLENTY The Oklahoma City-Houston game had two 40-point scorers, a tied triple-double record, and a winning rally from a 26-point deficit.Paul George scored 45 points, Russell Westbrook matched the league record with his ninth straight triple-double, and the visiting Thunder overcame the large deficit to beat the Rockets.Westbrook had 21 points, 11 assists and 12 rebounds to match the record streak set by Wilt Chamberlain in 1968. Westbrook has 22 triple-doubles this season and 126 over all.James Harden led Houston with 42 points, reaching 30 points for the 29th straight game — two shy of Chamberlain for the second-longest streak in N.B.A. history, but far behind Chamberlain’s record run of 65 games.(AP)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bykeeping scoreHarden’s 57 points against Memphis accounted for more than half of his team’s total helping make up for his lack of a supporting cast.By Benjamin HoffmanNo Chris Paul. No Eric Gordon. No Clint Capela. No problem. The Houston Rockets still have James Harden.In a mind-boggling performance, Harden and his supporting cast — if you can call it that — managed to beat the Memphis Grizzlies by 112-94 at Houston’s Toyota Center, with Harden scoring 57 points in 34 minutes.It was the 17th game in a row in which Harden scored at least 30 points — a feat previously accomplished in a single season by only Wilt Chamberlain — and it was Harden’s third game of 50 or more points this season. No other player has more than one.Coach Mike D’Antoni may have recorded the 600th win of his N.B.A. career in the game, but he was more interested in making sure people recognized the greatness of Harden’s feat.“What he just did, we kind of take it for granted a little bit,” D’Antoni told reporters. “It’s like, ‘Oh, look at that, isn’t that cute?’ It’s 57!” Harden, however, tried to keep the focus on Houston continuing to climb in the standings, and making up for Sunday’s loss to Orlando.“I don’t know if it was an emotional lift,” Harden told reporters of Monday’s win, “but I know it’s crunchtime in the sense that we’ve got three starters out and guys have got to pick up the slack. There’s no excuse.”While the outburst was hardly unexpected for Harden, who is now averaging an N.B.A.-leading 34.8 points a game, the Rockets’ personnel situation made it stand out. Paul has been out with an injured hamstring since Dec. 20 and Gordon has been out with an injured knee since Dec. 29. Houston’s injury report then took on what seemed like a crippling blow earlier on Monday when it was revealed that Capela, the team’s center — and the most frequent recipient of Harden’s assists — would be out for four to six weeks as a result of ligament damage in his right thumb.That list of injuries left Harden starting alongside the forgettable quartet of P.J. Tucker, Nene, Austin Rivers and Danuel House Jr. No matter, as Harden joined Kemba Walker as the only players to score more than half of their team’s points in a game this season.Harden was hot from the start, setting a Rockets record with 36 points in the first half, and he succeeded all game with his typical combination of 3-pointers (6 for 15) and free-throws (17 for 18). He also led all players in the game with nine rebounds and committed just five turnovers despite his outrageous level of usage.The last time Harden scored fewer than 30 points was Dec. 11 in Houston’s win over the Portland Trail Blazers, and he just barely missed the feat that night, with 29 points on 10 of 21 shooting. Since then he has averaged 41.3 points a game over the 17 games in which the Rockets, who got off to a poor start this season, have gone 13-4.In the 17 games, Harden has topped 50 points twice and 40 points 10 times. He has also recorded five triple-doubles.While Harden’s performance on Monday broke his tie with Kobe Bryant and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar for the N.B.A.’s longest single-season streak of 30-plus points by a player not named Chamberlain, Harden has a long way to go before catching Wilt.Chamberlain had 30-point streaks, of 20, 25, 31 and 65 games in his career, according to Basketball-Reference.com. The longest one, which came during the 1961-62 season, is likely an unbreakable record, but it comes with an amusing footnote: In Chamberlain’s last game before the streak started, he was held to 28 points in a loss to Bill Russell’s Boston Celtics. When the streak finally ended more than three months later, Chamberlain was held to 26 points — in a loss to Russell’s Celtics.As it currently stands, though, Harden does not appear to have a foil that can be his version of Russell, so there is no telling when this streak will end.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAs the crowd filed out of the Barclays Center in May 2015, there was reason for hope. Though the Nets had just been eliminated by the Atlanta Hawks in the first round of the playoffs, they had overachieved and shown some promise for the future. And Phil Jackson had become the Knicks president the year before, bringing his triangle offense and a coaching résumé that included 11 N.B.A. titles to Manhattan.Little did New York fans know that it would be four dreadful years before playoff basketball would return to the city. It finally will on Thursday night, when the Nets host the Philadelphia 76ers in a series tied at one all.While there has been no playoff basketball in the city in the interim, much has happened in those four years. And for Knicks and Nets fans, not much of it has been good.May 1, 2015 The eighth-seeded Nets fall to the top-seeded Hawks, 111-87. But they take two games in the series, raising optimism. “We were able to secure a playoff spot,” Coach Lionel Hollins says. “Some people will say, ‘Hey, we didn’t deserve it.’ That’s their problem.”June 25 After putting up a 17-65 record, the worst in franchise history and the league’s second worst in 2015, the Knicks have bad luck in the draft lottery, ending up at the No. 4 spot. Nevertheless, their selection, Kristaps Porzingis of Latvia, will pay off, quickly becoming a star and a fan favorite.Oct. 3 Knicks Coach Derek Fisher gets into a physical altercation after being confronted by Matt Barnes of the Memphis Grizzlies at the home of Barnes’s estranged wife. Barnes is suspended for two games.Dec. 30 Cleanthony Early of the Knicks is shot in the knee by masked men and robbed of gold teeth caps after a visit to a strip club.Jan. 10, 2016 The Nets fire Coach Hollins and demote General Manager Billy King with the team at 10-27. “Frankly speaking, I deserve a championship now much more than six years ago,”  owner Mikhail D. Prokhorov says.Feb. 8 The Knicks, 23-31, fire Fisher. “There’s not a whole lot to say,” Jackson says in his first remarks to reporters since the start of training camp.April 13 The Nets finish the season 21-61, the league’s third worst record. But there will be little help on draft day: They traded their top pick to the Celtics in 2014 for a 37-year-old Kevin Garnett and a 36-year-old Paul Pierce, both of whom are gone at this point.The Knicks finish 32-50. That’s a 15-game improvement, but Jackson says, “We’re disappointed about our season.”April 17 The Nets hire Kenny Atkinson, a Hawks assistant, as head coach. “Together, we can do great things,” Prokhorov says.June 2 The Knicks hire Jeff Hornacek as coach, bypassing the interim coach, Kurt Rambis.June 22 The Knicks trade for Derrick Rose, who proclaims them a “superteam.” After a year he will leave for the Cleveland Cavaliers.July 7 The Nets sign Jeremy Lin, perhaps hoping to recapture the Linsanity that took over the Knicks in 2012.July 8 The Knicks sign Joakim Noah for four years and $72 million. This will not work out. Noah will be suspended for 20 games for a drug violation, be sent to the developmental league and get into a shouting match with Hornacek. The Knicks wind up releasing him in 2018 and paying him anyway.Feb. 8, 2017 The Knicks legend Charles Oakley is ejected from Madison Square Garden during a game. The crowd sides with the former player, chanting “Oakley, Oakley.” The Knicks say he behaved abusively, and the owner, James L. Dolan, says that Oakley “may have a problem with alcohol.” Oakley sues, claiming defamation and battery.March 12 Carmelo Anthony gets his 10,000th point as a Knick, becoming the third player to reach that mark with two teams.April 12 The Nets finish 20-62, the worst record in the league. Once again a potentially high draft pick is gone, as part of the Garnett deal. The Knicks are 31-51.June 22 The Nets trade their longtime star Brook Lopez to the Los Angeles Lakers for D’Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov. Russell will become a key player in the team’s resurgence.June 28 The Knicks and Phil Jackson agree to part ways after three years. The Knicks never fully embraced his triangle offense, and Jackson remained wary of the 3-point shot as it became increasingly important in the league. He also could never seem to get rid of Anthony, the team’s aging star who refused to waive a no-trade clause. Jackson also feuded with the player expected to be the team’s future, Porzingis.Sept. 25 A trade is finally worked out for Anthony, who is sent to the Oklahoma City Thunder for Enes Kanter. He gave the Knicks seven seasons of 20-points-a-game play. Jackson was willing “to trade me for a bag of chips,” Anthony says. He also notes that under new management, “They went from asking for peanuts to asking for steak.”Oct. 18 Lin ruptures a knee tendon  in the Nets’ opening game and misses the entire season.Feb. 6, 2018 Porzingis tears the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee and is out for the rest of this season and the next one.April 11 The Nets finish 28-54. Incredibly, for a third straight year they do not have their top pick because of that Garnett deal. (Garnett is by now 41 and has been out of the league two years.) The lost picks turned into Jaylen Brown, a big part of the contending Celtics; Markelle Fultz, a No. 1 overall choice; and Collin Sexton, who averaged 17 points as a rookie with the Cleveland Cavaliers.The Knicks wind up 29-53 and fire Hornacek the next day. David Fizdale will be the new coach.Asked how the Knicks can improve, the superfan Spike Lee can only turn to prayer: “On bended knee I pray above to da basketball gods to deliver us back to da glory years of da Orange and Blue. Amen,” he writes in The New York Times.June 20 The Nets make a trade to get Dwight Howard from the Hornets, but Howard buys his way out of his contract and never plays for them.July 13 The Nets trade Lin to the Hawks, curing the city’s second, significantly milder case of Linsanity.Jan. 31, 2019 The Knicks  send their most popular player, Porzingis, who is still recovering from the torn A.C.L., to the Dallas Mavericks in a blockbuster trade. Two months later it will be revealed that he is under investigation by the New York Police Department after being accused of sexual assault.The Knicks get Dennis Smith Jr. and some expiring contracts, which should open up salary cap space so they can sign some marquee free agents. Assuming that marquee free agents would want to play for the Knicks.March 12 Knicks fans hoping for a change in ownership are disappointed when Dolan proclaims that he will not sell the team, even for $6 billion. Two days before that, he was filmed threatening a fan with banishment from the Garden after the fan had urged him to sell the team.April 10 The Knicks have sunk to the bottom of the league again, finishing 17-65 and tying the franchise-worst mark. The Nets start the season 8-18, but then unexpectedly turn things around behind Russell, Spencer Dinwiddie (picked up from the developmental league in 2016) and Jarrett Allen (a No. 22 pick in 2017). They finish 42-40. Playoff basketball returns to New York. For now.An earlier version of this article misstated the Knicks’ record in the 2014-15 season. They were 17-65, not 17-63.Benjamin Hoffman contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherThe most recent, less than Super Bowl notwithstanding, the N.F.L. continues to be a behemoth, dominating the sports landscape in revenue, attendance and television ratings.That popularity has over the years tempted entrepreneurs to try to cash in by starting professional football leagues of their own. The latest effort is the Alliance of American Football, which plays its first games on Saturday.There have been plenty of pretenders to the N.F.L.’s crown over the years. None have succeeded, but all had their share of novelty.Season July to DecemberWeird rules A touchdown was worth seven points; teams could then go for a conversion from scrimmage for one more “action point.” No sudden-death overtime; a full 15-minute quarter was played. No preseason.Champion Birmingham AmericansOdd team names The Hawaiians (Honolulu), Charlotte Hornets, Memphis Grizzlies, Shreveport SteamerBig-name owner John B. Kelly Jr. (Princess Grace’s brother) of the Philadelphia BellBig-name coaches Jack Pardee, Florida Blazers; John McVay, Memphis SouthmenBig-name players Ken Stabler, Birmingham; Bill Bergey, Florida; Larry Csonka and Jim Kiick, MemphisUnlikely city Shreveport, La.Strange occurrence A restraining order was served on defensive lineman John Matuszak by his N.F.L. team, the Houston Oilers, in the middle of a game, forcing him to stop playing for the Houston Texans.TV The syndicated TVS networkThe Times said: “The dye on the footballs may still be wet and the players may not he able to keep dry in the stifling heat, but the World Football League brings midweek, midsummer football to the nation’s sports life tonight.”Legacy Gave a start to Coach Marty Schottenheimer; broke ground for professional football in the South.Season March to JulyWeird rules Allowed 2-point conversion (later adopted by the N.F.L.)Champions Michigan Panthers, Philadelphia Stars, Baltimore StarsOdd team name Pittsburgh MaulersBig-name owner Donald J. Trump, New Jersey GeneralsBig-name coaches George Allen, Chicago Blitz; Marv Levy, Chicago; Jim Mora, Philadelphia and BaltimoreBig-name players Herschel Walker, New Jersey; Reggie White, Memphis Showboats; Jim Kelly, Houston Gamblers; Steve Young, Los Angeles ExpressUnlikely city Tulsa, Okla.Strange occurrence The Chicago Blitz was traded in its entirety — players, coaches and assets — for the Arizona Wranglers.TV ABC and ESPNThe Times said: “Yesterday’s opening of the U.S.F.L. season occurred only five weeks after Super Bowl XVII, meaning pro football now exists for 11 months. It’s as if another baseball league was formed with a season that opened in December.”Legacy Introduced instant replay for officials’ rulings; won antitrust lawsuit against the N.F.L. but was awarded only $3 in damages.Season February to AprilWeird rules Players could have nicknames on their jerseys; two players raced for the football to determine opening possession; no fair catches.Champion Los Angeles XtremeOdd team names New York/New Jersey Hitmen, Memphis ManiaxBig-name owner All teams owned by World Wrestling Federation and NBCBig-name coaches Ron Meyer, Chicago Enforcers; Al Luginbill, Los AngelesBig name players Rod “He Hate Me” Smart, Las Vegas Outlaws; Rashaan Salaam, MemphisStrange occurrence A double overtime game caused “Saturday Night Live” to be delayed by 45 minutes, infuriating the producer Lorne Michaels. Subsequently, NBC cut away from the games at 11 p.m. even if they were not over.TV NBCThe Times said: “Like a blight that has crept from the low-rent fringes of cable to network prime time, the XFL mingles violence, voyeurism and even politics into one trashy Saturday night show.”Legacy Unusual camera angles, including Skycam; a return planned for next year.Season October to NovemberWeird rules Blitzes limited to six players; single-bar face mask permitted.Champions Las Vegas Locomotives (three times), Virginia DestroyersOdd team name Florida TuskersBig-name owners Mark Cuban was an investor. Joe Theismann, Florida.Big-name coaches Jerry Glanville, Hartford Colonials; Jim Fassel, Las Vegas; Jay Gruden, FloridaBig-name players Brooks Bollinger, Florida; Graham Gano, Las Vegas; Maurice Clarett, Omaha Nighthawks; John David Washington, Denzel’s son, Sacramento Mountain LionsUnlikely city Virginia BeachStrange occurrence The “New York” Sentinels played one home game in Hartford, one in New Jersey and one on Long Island.TV Versus and CBS Sports NetworkThe Times said: “Reports of the U.F.L.’s impending death have been around as long as the league.”Legacy Had female officials, including Sarah Thomas, who is now in the N.F.L.Season October to NovemberWeird rules Kicks taken from wider hash mark; extra points from 35 yards.Champions Brooklyn BoltsOdd team names Florida Blacktips, Hudson Valley FortBig-name owner Teams were owned by the league.Big-name coach Terry Shea, maybe? (a former N.F.L. quarterbacks coach and Rutgers head coach)Big-name player Josh Freeman, BrooklynUnlikely city Fishkill, N.Y.Strange occurrence The Florida Blacktips were a traveling team that had no home stadium. The 2014 championship game was canceled, and Brooklyn declared the champion.TV ESPN3 and syndicatedThe Times said: “Tonight’s contest, against the Boston Brawlers, will be the first pro football game played in New York City since the Jets’ farewell to Shea Stadium in 1983.”Season February to AprilWeird rules No kickoffs; drives start from 25; 2-point conversions required.Champions T.B.D.Odd team name San Diego FleetBig-name owner Charlie Ebersol, son of the t executive Dick Ebersol, is a founder.Big-name coaches Steve Spurrier, Orlando Apollos; Mike Singletary, Memphis Express; Rick Neuheisel, Arizona HotshotsBig-name players Trent Richardson, Birmingham Iron; Zach Mettenberger, MemphisStrange occurrence Sites are already taking betting on the new league. BetDSI has the Arizona Hotshots as the favorites.TV CBS, CBS Sports Network, TNT and NFL NetworkThe Times said: “The Alliance of American Football, though, will have to overcome the obstacles that others could not, including runaway expenses, limited media exposure and a lack of fans.”Maybe a fierce rivalry will develop between San Diego and Phoenix. Maybe a player will break out the way “He Hate Me” did in the XFL. Maybe Coach Spurrier will recapture his magic. The Alliance will have to roll a Yahtzee to succeed in the shadow of the N.F.L. But even if it fails, you can bet someone will soon line up to try again.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points. At age 39, he became the oldest player ever to reach 50 in an NBA game.Heat 122, 76ers 99Dwyane Wade, playing the final home game of his NBA career, scored 30 points to lead Miami over Philadelphia.Wade made 10 of 23 shots, including 4 of 10 on attempts from beyond the arc. It was his second-highest scoring game of the season. But it was a bittersweet night for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention earlier in the evening when the Detroit Pistons rallied from a 22-point deficit to defeat the Memphis Grizzlies.Philadelphia, which has already clinched the third seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs, rested two of its stars: Joel Embiid, who was listed as having a knee injury, and JJ Redick (back).Warriors 112, Pelicans 103DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds against his former team as visiting Golden State defeated New Orleans.After clinching home-court advantage throughout the Western Conference playoffs on Sunday, the Warriors had Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson, Andre Iguodala and Andrew Bogut among their inactive players. Stephen Curry left for game after scoring five points in nine minutes in what the Warriors called "a precaution" after he sustained a mild foot sprain.Jahlil Okafor scored 30 points to lead the short-handed Pelicans, who dressed just eight players and finished the season 33-49.Raptors 120, Timberwolves 100Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points as visiting Toronto completed its regular-season schedule with a victory over Minnesota.The Raptors (58-24) secured the second-best record in the Eastern Conference with the win, behind only the Milwaukee Bucks (60-21), who play their final game Wednesday.Fred VanVleet added 16 points for the Raptors, Chris Boucher added career bests with 15 points and 13 rebounds, and Pascal Siakam and Norman Powell each scored 10 points. Gorgui Dieng and Andrew Wiggins each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves.Jazz 118, Nuggets 108Donovan Mitchell matched his career best of 46 points, and Utah posted a victory over Denver in Salt Lake City.Rudy Gobert added 20 points and 10 rebounds as Utah notched its ninth straight home win against Denver. Utah locked up the No. 5 seed for the Western Conference playoffs.Malik Beasley scored 25 points on 9-of-13 shooting for the Nuggets, who have lost four of their past six games and are a half-game ahead of Houston after the Rockets fell to the Oklahoma City Thunder on Tuesday.Trail Blazers 104, Lakers 101Instead of quietly sneaking into the offseason after losing its season finale to playoff-bound Portland, Los Angeles made some noise when Magic Johnson announced his resignation as president of basketball operations for the team.The game still meant something for Portland, though, and the Trail Blazers clinched home-court advantage in the first round of the Western Conference playoffs when Maurice Harkless made a 3-pointer at the buzzer for a win. The Trail Blazers can overtake the Rockets on a tiebreaker to finish third in the West with a win against the visiting Sacramento Kings on Wednesday.Harkless, who left the previous game with left hip tightness, finished with 26 points. Kentavious Caldwell-Pope had 32 points and eight assists for the Lakers, who finished with 37 wins -- two more than last season.Thunder 112, Rockets 111Russell Westbrook scored 29 points, but it was Paul George's corner 3-pointer with 1.8 seconds left that sent Oklahoma City to a home win over Houston.Oklahoma City trailed by 14 early in the fourth quarter and by four in the final minute before Westbrook's and George's heroics.James Harden made his first 12 free throws in the game but with less than 10 seconds left and Houston on top 111-109, he missed one, giving the Thunder a chance to tie or take the lead. Westbrook barreled up the court, briefly handing the ball off to Steven Adams near midcourt before getting the ball and firing it to George in the corner for what proved to be the game-winner.Celtics 116, Wizards 100Terry Rozier led seven Boston players in double figures with 21 points as his team closed out the regular season with a win over host Washington.The Celtics rallied from a 13-point, third-quarter deficit for their sixth win in eight games. Boston, which played without Marcus Smart, Jayson Tatum, Kyrie Irving, Al Horford, Marcus Morris, Aron Baynes and Gordon Hayward, will be the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs.Semi Ojeleye, Brad Wanamaker and RJ Hunter had 17 points apiece for Boston, which outscored Washington 27-15 in the fourth quarter. Tomas Satoransky led the Wizards with 19 points, and Bradley Beal scored 16 points in 16 minutes. Beal became the first person in franchise history to finish a season averaging at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists per game.Pistons 100, Grizzlies 93Andre Drummond scored 20 points and grabbed 17 rebounds, and Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to defeat visiting Memphis.Despite winning, the Pistons were unable to clinch the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. The Charlotte Hornets beat the Cleveland Cavaliers and remain one game behind Detroit heading into Wednesday night's final regular-season games. The Pistons finish against the Knicks at New York while the Hornets host the Orlando Magic.The Pistons, who trailed by 22 in the second quarter, climbed all the way back and took an 85-83 lead on Ish Smith's jumper just moments after his 3-pointer tied the score at 83-all. Smith finished with 22 points off the bench, and Luke Kennard added 15 for Detroit.Hornets 124, Cavaliers 97Kemba Walker and Jeremy Lamb scored 23 points apiece, and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive with a victory over host Cleveland.The Hornets led by 12 points in the first half and then pushed the lead all the way to 27 in the fourth quarter, winning their fourth straight and eighth in their past 11 games. They hit a season-high 22 3-pointers on 44 attempts and shot 57.7 percent from the field.Miles Bridges and Dwayne Bacon added 18 points apiece for the Hornets. Frank Kaminsky scored 14 and Devonte Graham had 10. Collin Sexton led the Cavs with 18 points.Knicks 96, Bulls 86Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points and Kevin Knox and Luke Kornet each notched double-doubles to lead New York past host Chicago.Knox had 17 points and 10 rebounds, Kornet chipped in 12 points and 13 rebounds and Damyean Dotson added 12 points for the Knicks (17-64), who are already assured of the NBA's worst record this season. They can do no worse than tie the franchise record for fewest wins in a regular season, set in 2014-15.The Bulls closed the home portion of their schedule with a 9-32 record, setting a franchise record for home futility. The 2000-01 team held the previous club standard for fewest home victories with 10.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Consider the following scenes from the N.B.A.’s annual bacchanal/business convention known as All-Star weekend:Spike Lee standing on a street corner waiting for the crosswalk signal. Stan Kroenke, whose family owns the Denver Nuggets, holding court in a hotel lobby. Joel Embiid, the star center of the Philadelphia 76ers, making small talk with the governor of North Carolina. An army of personal stylists waiting to be summoned by their clients for some of the flashiest events of the year.And then there were the agents and league officials and sneakerheads and reporters, some of whom traveled great distances to make unconventional requests of the weekend’s main attractions.“Shout out to my fans in Mongolia!” John Collins of the Atlanta Hawks yelled into a camera the morning before his appearance in the Saturday slam dunk contest.[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]All-Star weekend tends to be a blend of basketball and branding, business and pleasure — a showcase for a powerful league whose global influence continues to expand.“The whole weekend,” Mike Conley of the Memphis Grizzlies said, “is just a big party.”The All-Star Game itself, scheduled for Sunday night, felt secondary to just about everything else in the host city, as it has for many years. Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets, recalled waiting in line in 2006 for one of the more popular parties at All-Star weekend in Houston, where he watched Maciej Lampe — a center from Poland who appeared in 64 career games over parts of three seasons — bypass the line so that he could immediately be waved inside by security.“And I’m like, ‘Man, I’m behind Maciej Lampe?’” said Morey, who would officially join the front office of the Rockets a little more than six weeks later.All-Star weekend has only grown in recent years. One spreadsheet making the rounds in Charlotte listed more than 100 parties, and that did not include many of the more exclusive events. (Michael Jordan hosted a big one.) Thanks to a change in the league schedule, there is more partying and less deal-making than there used to be.Last year, the league moved the trade deadline up so that it preceded All-Star weekend. In the past, the deadline came a few days after the game, a sequence which helped create its share of absurdity. One of the more notorious examples came in 2017, when word leaked during the fourth quarter of the All-Star Game that the New Orleans Pelicans had struck a deal to acquire DeMarcus Cousins from the Sacramento Kings. Cousins learned of the trade during postgame interviews.The weekend vibe is different now.“It’s so much more fun,” one prominent agent said at a party that he hosted.In the corner, a disc jockey who appeared to be in his 60s spun tunes in a Hawaiian shirt and red-tinted glasses, while women wearing bright red dresses passed out hors d’oeuvres. Agents, clients and marketing honchos milled about the room.But none of this is meant to suggest that deals do not get done.On Thursday night, at a downtown hotel bar where patrons sipped $25 cocktails, a crowd of very tall men gathered as a private event wound down at a nearby steakhouse. Among the luminaries who emerged from the event: Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner; Kroenke, who also owns the Los Angeles Rams; Brian Rolapp, the N.F.L.’s chief media and business officer; Bill Simmons, the founder of The Ringer; Connor Schell, ESPN’s executive vice president for content; and Bob Myers, the general manager of the Golden State Warriors.“There are definitely conversations happening,” Morey said. “And there’s serendipity involved. You’re always bumping into people.”Morey was finishing lunch at an upscale restaurant. Warren LeGarie, a longtime agent to many coaches and executives, and Kiki Vandeweghe, the league’s executive vice president for basketball operations, were dining at nearby tables. Morey was about to head into a meeting with Vandeweghe and Monty McCutchen, who supervises the league’s referees.“Obviously, we care deeply about where the league is going,” Morey said, “so talking to Adam Silver about strategy or Monty McCutchen about changing how they might call certain things — all that kind of stuff could impact our franchise moving forward, so I try to be involved.”The atmosphere may seem more relaxed than it was two years ago, when most team executives and agents were focused on the trade deadline, but the shift in the schedule has not pushed aside the league’s most pressing issues.In Charlotte, a cloud loomed over the festivities, and it came in the shape of a unibrow.Perhaps you have heard? Anthony Davis, the star center for the Pelicans, requested a trade 10 days before the deadline.The Pelicans, though, rejected all trade offers for him and instead hope to reap better players and draft picks in a deal this summer. Last week, Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry called the drama of it all a “dumpster fire.” On Friday, the Pelicans fired their general manager. On Saturday, Davis told reporters that his list of preferred destinations included the Knicks and the Los Angeles Lakers. Hours later, Silver said he would like trade demands and discussions to remain behind closed doors.In any case, the Davis situation only underscored how much the topic of player movement dominates the league — even in the middle of the season, and even after the trade deadline. Everyone here was fixated on what could happen just over four months from now — at the start of free agency.Will Kevin Durant leave the Warriors? Will Kawhi Leonard spurn the Toronto Raptors? Will Kyrie Irving bolt from the Boston Celtics? And, again, what about Davis?“No one likes to see an instance,” Silver said, “where a player is demanding that he be traded when he’s still in the middle of a contractual obligation to a team.”Silver made those remarks, and his wish for private trade discussions, at a news conference before Saturday night’s skills, dunk and 3-point competitions.The media forum, like the carefully coordinated outfits stars wore to events around town, has become part of the event’s routine. So has the roll call of courtside A-listers during the dunk contest; this year’s included the rappers Quavo, 2 Chainz, J. Cole and Gucci Mane.All-Star weekend was not always so structured — or extravagant. Paul Westphal recalled making his first trip to an All-Star Game in 1977 as a guard for the Phoenix Suns. The league hosted a modest dinner. Players received commemorative mugs. Anyone associated with the game stayed at the same hotel in downtown Milwaukee.“It wasn’t like it is now where the game takes over the whole city,” Westphal said.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar missed practice, Westphal said, then showed up about 20 minutes before the start of the game in a fur coat. Westphal helped seal his team’s win with a late steal against Pete Maravich. It was a moment he said he would never forget.This weekend, Westphal was in Charlotte, where he was named a finalist for the Basketball Hall of Fame. He said he was not planning to attend any parties.“Just dinner with friends,” he said.In Charlotte, the streets around the host arena, Spectrum Center, were choked with traffic. Concert fliers hung from every lamppost. And none of the guests, spread among numerous hotels at premium nightly rates, seemed to mind the cold weather as countless lines formed for restaurants, bars and pop-up musical performances.Given all the extracurriculars, it was easy to forget that basketball was the only reason anyone was here in the first place — and perhaps that was because the only legitimate basketball was being played in a college gymnasium a few miles from downtown. A group of elite teenage prospects, without much fanfare, had convened for the league’s annual Basketball Without Borders Global Camp.In all, 63 boys and girls from 31 countries played in front of scouts and executives who hoped to identify the sport’s next batch of stars.“There’s a lot of talent here,” said Brooks Meek, the N.B.A.’s vice president for international basketball operations.The spotlight will find them soon enough.Kevin Draper and Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
Maybe they were never going to win a championship this season, even with LeBron James, but they were not supposed to be this bad. What happened?CreditCreditHarry How/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Marc SteinThe arrival of LeBron James as their latest in a succession of superstar imports was supposed to halt the longest period of suffering in the Los Angeles Lakers’ California history.What James and the Lakers have experienced instead will be remembered as the most disappointing season of James’s career — because it will extend a stubborn playoff drought that has flummoxed the N.B.A.’s most glamorous franchise.Not even James’s presence could prevent a sixth straight missed postseason for the new Lakers, who are mere days from being mathematically eliminated from the playoffs entering Sunday’s visit to Madison Square Garden to face the Knicks. The Lakers, remember, missed the playoffs only four times in their first 53 seasons after relocating from Minneapolis in the 1960-61 season.So much for Hollywood fairy tales.Perhaps expectations for this team were unrealistically high, given the modest quality of James’s supporting cast in Year 1, but his Lakerland debut was never supposed to veer this far off-script for a once-in-a-generation player. What follows is a breakdown of how things fell apart — in six stages.Without warning, on July 1, 2018, the first night of N.B.A. free agency, James announced through a 39-word news release that he was signing a four-year, $154 million contract with the Lakers.Yet the ensuing celebration did not last even 24 hours.On July 2, Golden State boldly swiped some of the Lakers’ thunder by signing the former All-Star big man DeMarcus Cousins to a bargain deal. The Lakers then spent the next week scouring the league for the best players willing to sign one-year contracts — thereby preserving salary-cap flexibility for the summer of 2019 and their planned pursuit of an All-Star sidekick for James.The problem: Magic Johnson and Rob Pelinka, the Lakers’ nascent front-office power duo, signed a slew of nonshooters and, shall we say, mercurial personalities who, as a group, prompted instant second-guessing.The Lakers countered the skepticism by insisting that playmakers and playoff-tested veterans, rather than shooting specialists who could open up space on the floor, would ease LeBron’s burden and potentially even match up well with the mighty Warriors — only to see their signees do little to hush the told-you-so crowd. JaVale McGee, the veteran center, initially exceeded expectations, but the quartet of Rajon Rondo, Lance Stephenson, Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Michael Beasley proved as collectively ineffective as feared.Perhaps we should have known that this was not going to be the usual LeBron season when a fight broke out between a number of Lakers and Houston Rockets in James’s first home game at Staples Center.And the tension never really let up.After just eight games — five of them losses — Johnson summoned Coach Luke Walton for a pointed lecture about the Lakers’ sluggish start. The team’s legendary point-guard-turned-team president never intended for the meeting or any details to leak to the news media, but they promptly did in the no-secrets world of the N.B.A.Johnson immediately tried to play down suggestions that Walton’s job was already in jeopardy, in an interview with The Los Angeles Times, but he would not go further than proclaiming that Walton was “going to finish the season, unless something drastic happens, which it won’t.”Walton is certainly not blameless in the Lakers’ struggles. His lineups, rotations and responsibility for L.A.’s worrisome drop to No. 22 leaguewide in offensive efficiency have routinely been questioned. Management, furthermore, is said to be dismayed by Walton’s refusal to hire a seasoned former head coach as his top assistant — something young coaches (Walton is 38) frequently do.Yet the public nature of the heat Walton took from his own front office made Johnson look impatient and, worse, ramped up the pressure on everyone in the Lakers’ locker room — especially the coach — before they even made it to Thanksgiving. With two years left on a five-year deal, Walton is widely expected to be shoved out of his toasty seat for good at season’s end.What can be classified as the best day of the Lakers’ season, if you only considered the box score, is also bound to be remembered as this season’s low point.The Lakers went to Oakland on Christmas Day for a game in the most anticipated television time slot on the regular-season calendar and throttled the two-time defending champion Warriors. The 127-101 rout capped an 18-9 surge that nudged L.A.’s record to 20-14, good for a promising fourth in the dauntingly deep Western Conference.But James strained his left groin as he stretched to retrieve a loose ball in the third quarter. The Lakers gradually pulled away without him — and James optimistically posted to Twitter the next day about how he “dodged a bullet,” with a #BackInNoTime hashtag — but the injury turned out to be the most serious he had ever sustained.James eventually missed 17 games. No previous injury had ever sidelined him longer than the eight games he lost to a back injury in 2014-15. The Lakers went 6-11 without James and, even accounting for all of their missteps before and after LeBron went down, can rightly point to suddenly losing their star as the biggest blow to the team’s playoff hopes.It remains unclear how #BackInNoTime turned into six weeks on the sideline for James. An inevitability given his age (34)? The byproduct of the Lakers playing at a much faster pace than LeBron’s Cleveland teams? A freak occurrence?Maybe it was a combination of all those factors.What’s clear, though, is that the Lakers’ overall poor health has consistently hurt them.The Lakers, for starters, are 6-15 since Jan. 19, when Lonzo Ball, who had begun to impress James as their starting point guard, sustained a serious ankle injury. And there’s more.Tyson Chandler, the veteran center who made such an impact defensively after joining the team Nov. 6, is dealing with a neck ailment. Josh Hart, the promising second-year guard, has been plagued by tendinitis in his left knee for months. And Brandon Ingram, the swingman with tantalizing potential as a scorer, missed several games with ankle and shoulder problems before he was ruled out for the rest of the season recently with deep venous thrombosis.In real time, only 11 days elapsed between New Orleans forward Anthony Davis’s trade request going public on Jan. 28 and the league’s Feb. 7 trade deadline. But that surely felt like an eternity for the Lakers’ quartet of starlets: Ingram, Ball, Hart and Kyle Kuzma.Especially since the fallout is continuing.From the minute James arrived in Hollywood, after the Lakers made unsuccessful trade runs at Paul George and Kawhi Leonard, it was known that the team would try to trade for Davis — which meant all four of L.A.’s top young players were destined to hear their names in trade speculation. Yet the leaguewide consensus was that Davis would not be made available until at least the 2019 off-season, theoretically giving the starlets an opportunity to build something with James — and maybe even change management’s mind about looking externally for LeBron’s superstar sidekick.But Davis’s trade request changed everything. Rich Paul, LeBron’s agent and longtime friend, became Davis’s agent in September and was widely perceived to have made the trade request on Davis’s behalf to get him to Los Angeles. A seemingly ceaseless stream of leaked Lakers offers thereafter irreparably fractured the locker room, no matter how hard Paul pushed back against that narrative.Nor can the team fully move on from the trade drama, because everyone knows the front office will be back on the phones with New Orleans soon, trying to beat out the Boston Celtics’ package for Davis once the Pelicans start fielding offers for him anew.A Feb. 12 road loss to the Atlanta Hawks was the Lakers’ fourth in five games entering the All-Star break and lowered their record to 28-29. James emerged from the break insisting that he would shift into playoff mode far earlier than normal — “It’s been activated,” LeBron promised — but the Lakers promptly lost road games to the Davis-less Pelicans and the draft-minded Memphis Grizzlies after a hope-building home win against the Houston Rockets.The season effectively ended March 2 in Phoenix, when the Lakers lost to a Suns team in the midst of a 1-18 funk. The defeat meant L.A. had fallen to five of the league’s six teams which currently have sub-.400 winning percentages (Chicago is the only exception). The loss was soon followed by announcements that Ball and Ingram would be held out of the Lakers’ remaining games — and that James’s minutes would be reduced.James was held out of Friday’s game against the Detroit Pistons via the increasingly popular leaguewide synonym for rest — “load management.” LeBron’s load, of course, is about to become lighter in April, May and June than anyone expected.These Lakers were never a lock to reach the playoffs in the loaded West, but the overwhelming majority of league observers and Las Vegas oddsmakers — who largely pegged them as a 48-win team — figured LeBron would find a way. He has instead absorbed criticism for spotty leadership and intermittent engagement with his new team as he prepares for life as a playoff spectator for the first time since his second N.B.A. season (2004-5).Last summer, when he was still preaching patience, Johnson did say that he would need two off-seasons to assemble a true contender even if the Lakers were fortunate enough to land LeBron. “Next summer, if nobody comes and I’m sitting here like this, then it’s a failure,” Magic said at the time.But spring has barely sprung — and next summer is already here for the Lakers and James. Sooner than they ever envisioned, Magic, Pelinka and Jeanie Buss, the Lakers’ owner, are on the clock to make moves that lead to a honeymoon that lasts.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Los Angeles Lakers and coach Luke Walton mutually parted ways on Friday, general manager Rob Pelinka announced in a statement.Walton's status had been tenuous, even before Magic Johnson resigned as president of basketball operations on Tuesday. Lakers owner Jeanie Buss was reportedly ready to OK a departure after previously being fully supportive of Walton."We would like to thank Luke for his dedicated service over the last three years," Pelinka said in a statement. "We wish Luke and his family the best of luck moving forward."Walton compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three seasons."I want to thank Jeanie Buss and the Buss family for giving me the opportunity to coach the Lakers," Walton said in a statement. "This franchise and the city will always be special to me and my family."The Lakers went 37-45 this season in a disappointing first campaign of the LeBron James era.Los Angeles was 20-14 when James suffered a groin injury during a Christmas Day win over the Golden State Warriors and the team's fortunes plummeted from there.Walton may not be unemployed for a long period as the Sacramento Kings are reportedly interested in interviewing him for their opening.The Kings went 39-43 this season and fired coach Dave Joerger. They have an impressive young group led by point guard De'Aaron Fox, shooting guard Buddy Hield and power forward Marvin Bagley III.Among the candidates for the Lakers' post is former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and Philadelphia 76ers assistant coach Monty Williams.Lue coached James for parts of three seasons in Cleveland -- including the franchise's 2016 NBA Finals title -- while Williams coached the New Orleans Pelicans for five seasons.Williams also is reported a candidate for the Sacramento job.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGolden State guard Stephen Curry left the Warriors' Tuesday game against the New Orleans Pelicans with a sprained right foot, but the ailment isn't expected to affect his readiness for the NBA playoffs.Curry sustained the non-contact injury when he rolled his foot and ankle while dribbling near the 3-point arc. He immediately fell and lost control of the ball.The team already was short-handed without key contributors such as Kevin Durant (flu-like symptoms), Klay Thompson (right knee soreness), Andre Iguodala (toe) and Andrew Bogut (rest), yet Golden State beat New Orleans 112-103.Warriors coach Steve Kerr was relatively tight-lipped about the injury after the game -- even labeling it an ankle issue when the team had earlier reported it as a sprained foot -- but Golden State's in-game actions spoke louder than his words.After going to the locker room for an examination, Curry returned to the game briefly, an indication the Warriors don't believe the injury is serious.In fact, it was Curry who waved himself off after hitting a shot, clearly not willing to risk further damage with the playoff opener potentially as close as four days away. He finished with five points in nine minutes of action."We think he's going to be fine. He tweaked it," Kerr told reporters afterward.The coach then was asked if the Warriors' Wednesday duel with the Toronto Raptors for the second-best record in the NBA played any role in Curry re-entering the game."We would like to win every game," Kerr responded. "Whatever happens with the seedings, we prioritize our health."Golden State already had secured the top seed in the Western Conference playoffs.In 2017, Curry also turned his right ankle on the Pelicans' home court. He missed almost a month because of that injury.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Golden State Warriors fear center DeMarcus Cousins suffered a torn quad during the team's stunning Game 2 loss to the Los Angeles Clippers in Oakland, Calif., ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported late Monday night.Noting that the exact nature of the injury won't be known until an MRI exam is performed Tuesday, Wojnarowski reported "there was evidence that Cousins' noncontact injury ... was serious and season-ending, league sources said."Cousins was injured while trying to run down a loose ball 3 1/2 minutes into the team's eventual 135-131 loss to the Clippers. With the Warriors leading 11-9 and the Clippers possessing the ball just past the half-court line, Cousins deflected a pass and sent it down the court toward the Warriors' bench. Trying to run down the ball before it went out of bounds, Cousins stumbled and went down without being touched, and immediately grabbed his left quad.He got up and soon limped off the court toward the Warriors' locker room. He had two points on a pair of free throws in four official minutes played. He also had two rebounds and an assist.Cousins, 28, had nine points, nine rebounds and four assists in Saturday night's Game 1, his first career playoff game. The Warriors won that game 121-104.Cousins signed a one-year, $5.3 million deal with the Warriors last offseason, then missed the team's first 45 games of the season as he continued to rehab from a ruptured left Achilles tendon he suffered playing for the New Orleans Pelicans on Jan. 26, 2018.In taking the one-year deal with the Warriors, Cousins' plan was to use this season to play his way back into a big free-agent contract this summer. If the quad is indeed torn, Cousins "could be facing several more months of rehab," per Wojnarowski.Picked fifth overall in the 2010 draft, the nine-year veteran is a four-time All-Star with career averages of 21.2 points, 10.9 rebounds. 3.2 assists, 1.4 steals and 1.2 blocks per game.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Tech standout Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, announced Thursday he will forgo his last two seasons in Lubbock and declare for the 2019 NBA Draft.The 6-foot-5, 195-pound guard made the announcement during a press conference in Lubbock, Texas.Culver helped lead the Red Raiders to a share of the Big 12 regular-season title and was effective in this year's NCAA Tournament, where Texas Tech fell to Virginia 85-77 in overtime in the national championship game.On the season, Culver averaged 18.5 points, 6.4 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game while the Red Raiders set a school record with 31 wins.--Also announcing his plans to declare for the draft was 18-year-old Russian Nikita Mikhailovskii, according to a report by ESPN.The 6-foot-8, 180-pound wing is trying to become the first Russian player drafted since 2013 when Sergey Karasev was chosen with the 19th pick by the Cleveland Cavaliers.Mikhailovskii spent the past season playing in the mostly Russian VTB United League and FIBA Europe Cup, averaging 7.8 points in 16.8 minutes while shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range in 45 games.--The Memphis Grizzlies hired two former general managers to their front office, adding Rich Cho as vice president of strategy and Glen Grunwald as senior adviser.Cho is a former GM of the Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers, and Grunwald was GM of the New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors.The Grizzlies demoted former GM Chris Wallace to a scouting role in a flurry of moves last week, including the firing of head coach J.B. Bickerstaff and the promotion of Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations.--Los Angeles Clippers assistant general manager Trent Redden reportedly is close to interviewing for a senior front-office role with the New Orleans Pelicans.The Clippers gave the Pelicans permission to discuss the position with Redden, ESPN reported, citing league sources.David Griffin, the Pelicans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, worked closely with Redden when they with the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 2016 NBA championship season. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski noted that Griffin is expected to be "aggressive" in pursuing Redden.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinU.S.A. Basketball plans to gauge the interest of the Duke University sensation Zion Williamson in joining the Americans’ 12-man squad for the FIBA World Cup in China this summer, according to a person familiar with U.S.A. Basketball’s intentions.No discussions have taken place with Williamson, whose freshman season at Duke ended Sunday with a 68-67 quarterfinal loss against Michigan State in the N.C.A.A. tournament.Formal talks with Williams, the presumptive No. 1 overall N.B.A. draft pick, would most likely not take place until Williams had officially declared his intention to turn professional and chosen an agent licensed by the N.B.A. to represent him, said the person, who was not authorized to speak publicly.But the precedent for such an invitation was set by the current U.S.A. Basketball hierarchy in 2012, when Anthony Davis — fresh off being drafted No. 1 overall out of Kentucky by the New Orleans Pelicans — earned a roster spot with Team USA at the London Olympics under Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski.The 2019 World Cup, which runs Aug. 31 to Sept. 15 in China, will be the first major competition for the United States since Krzyzewski was succeeded as coach by Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs. Williamson is widely regarded as the rare sort of talent, like Davis before him, who would not be out of place with the N.B.A. All-Stars expected to fill out Popovich’s roster — no matter who is coaching.The Athletic reported Monday that the Lakers’ LeBron James, a three-time Olympian, would not make himself available for the World Cup team this summer but that he had not ruled out playing for Team USA at the Tokyo Olympics in 2020.There was some hope in international basketball circles that James would consider playing in the World Cup since the Lakers had missed the playoffs and James would sit out the N.B.A. postseason for the first time since 2004-05.Jerry Colangelo, the chairman of U.S.A. Basketball, declined to discuss James or Williamson specifically when he was reached on Monday, saying only that roster invitations “will be addressed at the appropriate time.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. said Monday that it required the New Orleans Pelicans to play Anthony Davis, their disgruntled All-Star, after he was not traded before last week’s trade deadline because of “league rules governing competitive integrity.”The Pelicans initially planned to sit Davis for the rest of the season once they responded to his request to be traded by deciding to keep him beyond Thursday’s deadline, according to two people familiar with New Orleans’ stance who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.But the league office said it intervened because of its rules about resting healthy players, which are in place largely to prevent teams from weakening their rosters intentionally to incur losses that could improve their draft position in June. The practice is known as “tanking.”The Pelicans maintain that they were trying to protect Davis from a serious injury during the final 28 regular-season games before the off-season, when they do intend to trade him after they field offers from a wider base of teams than those who made competitive offers last week, according to the people.Mike Bass, an N.B.A. spokesman, said Monday that “the Pelicans were advised that the team had not identified a proper basis” to hold Davis out of games.“League rules governing competitive integrity therefore require that he be permitted to play,” Bass said.Bass also denied an ESPN report from last week that said the Pelicans were threatened by the league with per-game fines of $100,000 if they sat Davis when he wanted to play.[With Anthony Davis on His Way Out, New Orleans Tries to Plot Its Path]Davis, who can become a free agent in July 2020, requested a trade from the Pelicans on Jan. 28 but did not insist that he be traded before the deadline, The Times reported last week. As part of the trade request, Davis also told the Pelicans that he intended to decline their offer of a $240 million contract extension in July and that the Los Angeles Lakers and the Knicks were the two teams he was most open to signing a long-term deal with.Upon learning of New Orleans’ plans to sit Davis after the Pelicans and Lakers broke off days of contentious trade talks, Davis’s agent, Rich Paul, lobbied league officials on Davis’s behalf to clear him to play, according to the people.Both Paul and Michele Roberts, head of the N.B.A. Players Association, declined to comment Monday.“Anthony Davis will play the remainder of the 2018-19 season for the New Orleans Pelicans,” New Orleans General Manager Dell Demps said in a statement last week. “A number of factors contributed to this decision. Ultimately Anthony made it clear to us that he wants to play and gives our team the best opportunity to win games. Moreover the Pelicans want to preserve the integrity of the game and align our organization with N.B.A. policies. We believe Anthony playing upholds the values that are in the best interest of the N.B.A. and its fans. We look forward to seeing Anthony in a Pelicans uniform soon.”Davis has since appeared in two games with New Orleans, averaging 28.5 points and 12.5 rebounds in 29.5 minutes per game in a win (over Minnesota) and a defeat (in Memphis).The N.B.A. has been increasingly vigilant in sanctioning teams for resting healthy players since an incident in November 2012, when the San Antonio Spurs were fined $250,000 for sending Tim Duncan, Tony Parker, Manu Ginobili and Danny Green home with virtually no notice before a nationally televised game in Miami.This season, though, several players with smaller profiles than Davis have been shelved by their teams in anticipation of a trade without any public pushback from the N.B.A.Like Davis, Chandler Parsons of Memphis and Carmelo Anthony, the former Houston Rocket, wanted to play but were benched for months. Parsons has since rejoined the Grizzlies after they were unable to find a new home for him via trade before the deadline; Anthony spent more than two months in exile before the Rockets traded him to the Chicago Bulls on Jan. 21. Anthony became a free agent on Feb. 3 after the Bulls released him and he cleared waivers.Cleveland’s J.R. Smith and Zach Randolph, the former Sacramento King who was traded to Dallas last week, have also been inactive for long spells this season — but both by mutual agreement with their teams.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSACRAMENTO, Calif. — Ian Clark scored 31 points with a career-best seven 3-pointers, Elfrid Payton had 12 of his 25 points in the final 3½ minutes and the New Orleans Pelicans beat the Sacramento Kings 133-129 on Sunday night.Jahlil Okafor added 23 points and 14 rebounds, Solomon Hill had 13 points and Kenrich Williams scored 12 to help the Pelicans stop a three-game skid while beating the Kings for the third time in four meetings this season.Harrison Barnes scored 29 points for Sacramento in its final home game. De'Aaron Fox added 24 points and 11 assists, while Marvin Bagley had 19 points and 14 rebounds.New Orleans led by 16 in the third quarter but Sacramento came back to tie it, then went up 117-115 midway through the fourth.Bogdan Bogdanovic and Barnes made consecutive 3s to put the Kings ahead 123-121. Payton then scored on a short jumper and made a 3-pointer.The Pelicans led 132-126 following a pair of free throws by Payton with 26.5 seconds remaining. Bogdanovic made another 3 but later airballed an attempt from beyond the arc. Buddy Hield also missed a late 3-pointer for the Kings.Hield finished with 12 points and made two 3s, giving him 599 in his first three NBA seasons. That matches the mark set by Portland's Damian Lillard.By taking three of four from Sacramento, the Pelicans prevented the Kings from celebrating their first 40-win season at home since 2005-06. Sacramento (39-42) can still reach 40 wins by beating Portland on the road Wednesday.The Kings got off to a good start but couldn't hold off the Pelicans in the second half.Nemanja Bjelica was perfect on five shots in the first quarter and had 12 points. Fox added 10 to help offset four 3s by Clark in the opening period.The Kings led by 14 before Clark led a late charge in the second quarter to pull the Pelicans to 68-66.TIP-INSPelicans: With Julius Randle getting the night off for rest, New Orleans was left with a three-man bench. Christian Wood started in place of Randle.Kings: Bagley's double-double was his 19th this season. . Coach Dave Joerger picked up a technical foul at the end of the third, his eighth this season. . Sacramento closed the third quarter on a 22-6 run, not long after allowing the Pelicans to go on a 20-5 spurt.UP NEXTPelicans: Play at Golden State on Tuesday.Kings: End the season at Portland on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaThe Golden State Warriors did more than just fall victim to the biggest comeback in N.B.A. playoff history on Monday night. They also lost DeMarcus Cousins, their starting center, for the foreseeable future — and most likely for the rest of the postseason. A test on Tuesday revealed that he had torn a left quadriceps muscle in the first quarter of the Warriors’ 135-131 loss to the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 2 of their first-round playoff series.Cousins, who had returned this season after tearing his left Achilles’ tendon in January 2018, underwent a magnetic resonance imaging examination that showed the tear, the Warriors announced. The team said Cousins would be out “indefinitely” and begin a course of rehabilitation.Cousins, 28, sustained the injury when he tumbled to the court going for a loose ball early in Monday’s game. He immediately grabbed his left thigh, then limped to the locker room and did not return.It was another devastating blow for Cousins, a four-time N.B.A. All-Star whose career has unraveled because of injuries. Last season, he was in line for a huge new contract when he tore his Achilles’ tendon while playing for the New Orleans Pelicans. He agreed to a modest one-year deal with the Warriors worth $5.3 million.After spending the first half of the season rehabbing, Cousins returned to the court in January and gave the Warriors more depth in their pursuit of a third straight championship. He had been playing well, too, averaging 16.3 points and 8.2 rebounds a game in 30 regular-season appearances.After Cousins departed, the Warriors managed to build a 31-point lead against the Clippers — but then blew it, succumbing to Lou Williams (36 points, 11 assists) and Montrezl Harrell (25 points, 10 rebounds), who helped Los Angeles even the best-of-seven series at a game apiece.RAPTORS 111, MAGIC 82 Kawhi Leonard scored 37 points, Kyle Lowry bounced back from a scoreless playoff opener with 22 and host Toronto routed Orlando on Tuesday night, evening their Eastern Conference first-round series at one win apiece.Pascal Siakam had 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who never trailed and led by as many as 34. Despite playing in foul trouble for much of the night, Leonard finished with a career playoff-high 15 field goals. (AP)NUGGETS 114, SPURS 105 Jamal Murray scored 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter, and host Denver rallied from 19 down to beat San Antonio and tie their Western Conference first-round playoff series at one game apiece.Nikola Jokic had 21 points, 13 rebounds and 8 assists, Gary Harris scored 23 points and Paul Millsap had 20 for Denver. DeMar DeRozan scored a playoff career-high 31 points and LaMarcus Aldridge had 24 points for the Spurs.The Nuggets struggled to make shots deep into the third quarter but found their rhythm in the fourth quarter by hitting nine of their first 11 field goals in the final period to storm into the lead. (FIELD LEVEL MEDIA)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Los Angeles Lakers held exit interviews with the media on Wednesday, fresh off a disappointing season and the drama of Tuesday night, when team president Magic Johnson abruptly stepped down before the final game."We had moments where we were really, really good and we had moments where we were really, really bad," forward Brandon Ingram said."Because of what went on throughout the schedule, which was crazy, I think that ultimately helps us out and brings us even closer for next year. I'm not sure who is going to return, but for the guys who are, I know they going to feel that feeling of like we could have won games."But much is up in the air a day after the Lakers ended with a 37-45 record and missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season. Who will run the team? Who will coach the team? Luke Walton, after his third season on the bench, did not meet with the media Wednesday."I think Luke did a hell of a job, with what he had, the cards he was dealt," point guard Rajon Rondo said. "Guys fought every night."The Lakers, who pursued New Orleans Pelicans star Anthony Davis at the trading deadline, will want to make a big offseason splash, which could suit the desires of superstar LeBron James.The Lakers were 20-14 and in fourth place in the Western Conference after beating the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day, when James suffered a groin injury that cost him the next 17 games.Ingram didn't play after March 2 and under underwent thoracic outlet decompression surgery after he was diagnosed with deep venous thrombosis, which involved a blood clot that caused shoulder pain.Point guard Lonzo Ball didn't play after Jan. 19 because of a left ankle injury. He wore a black hat with the words "Don't Forget Me" to his media interview Wednesday."I think those two weeks before I got hurt, I kind of figured it out," said Ball, whose name has been mentioned in trade possibilities. "I felt I was playing the basketball I was capable of playing and unfortunately I got hurt and couldn't come back."The other big question around Ball is whether he will continue to do business with his father, LaVar Ball, and the family's Big Baller Brand."We're still talking about it," Lonzo Ball said. "Right now, I'm not really too focused on that. I'm more focused on just being healthy, getting right for the summer. We'll get around to it."Ball said he looked at James -- who signed a four-year, $154 million deal last offseason -- as a "big brother.""It was a dream come true for me," Ball said of playing with James. "Obviously, his IQ is off the charts, so he's not hard to play with at all."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHere are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. on Tuesday fined Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans $50,000 because his agent, Rich Paul, had gone public with a trade request.Davis was hit with the fine after Paul gave multiple interviews on Monday saying that the All-Star big man wanted to be traded and would decline a contract extension for an estimated $240 million that New Orleans was planning to offer in July, at the first permissible moment.Paul’s comments violated “a collectively bargained rule prohibiting players or their representatives from making public trade demands,” the league said in a statement announcing the fine.The league described Paul’s comments as an “intentional effort to undermine the contractual relationship between Davis and the Pelicans.”Paul declined to comment on Tuesday. Davis refused to speak to reporters before New Orleans’s game on Tuesday night against the Houston Rockets.In another high-profile case of a player’s trade request this season, Jimmy Butler was not fined after pressing to be dealt from the Minnesota Timberwolves in September, because neither Butler nor his agent, Bernie Lee, openly discussed Butler’s wishes with the news media. The Timberwolves ultimately traded Butler to the Philadelphia 76ers on Nov. 10.But in a subsequent example, Cleveland’s J. R. Smith — who is also represented by Paul — dodged a fine after he publicly requested a trade in November. Smith was sent away from the Cavaliers in a mutual decision between the team and Paul to allow Cleveland to try to find a new home for Smith.The Los Angeles Lakers are at the forefront of teams trying to persuade the Pelicans to surrender Davis before the Feb. 7 trade deadline.The Knicks are also determined to establish themselves as a factor in the bidding for Davis, according to a person with knowledge of the team’s plans. The Knicks, though, realize that they might not be able to make their bid for Davis until May, when the order for the top of the June draft is set, according to the person, who was not authorized to discuss the situation publicly.Barring a home-run offer before next week’s deadline, the Pelicans are widely expected by rival teams to keep Davis for the short term and wait until closer to the draft to make a deal, in hopes of broadening their trade options.The Boston Celtics, regarded for some time as the Lakers’ foremost challenger in the long-anticipated trade sweepstakes for Davis, are ineligible to acquire Davis via trade while the All-Star guard Kyrie Irving is on Boston’s roster. League rules preclude one team from having two players on the designated rookie scale contract extensions possessed by both Davis and Irving.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe Philadelphia 76ers made a bold move in the early hours of Wednesday morning to try to seize control of the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference by trading for Tobias Harris, the Los Angeles Clippers’ dynamic forward.In his second trade this season for a player who can become a free agent in July, Philadelphia General Manager Elton Brand surrendered two future first-round picks and two second-round picks in a six-player deal. The clear headliner, though, is Harris, who will join Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, J.J. Redick and Jimmy Butler, November’s acquisition, in what threatens to be the league’s most potent starting lineup outside of Golden State.The cost for Philadelphia was significant. The Sixers gave up their first-round pick in 2020 and an unprotected first-round pick in 2021, which they have from the Miami Heat, along with Wilson Chandler, Mike Muscala and Landry Shamet, a rookie guard. In return, Philadelphia will receive Harris, Boban Marjanovic and Mike Scott.“We are in a unique position to contend now, and we think this trade positions us well for the postseason,” Brand said in a statement.Philadelphia entered Wednesday’s play as the East’s No. 5 seed at 34-20, six games behind Milwaukee (39-13). The Sixers’ twofold challenge now will be establishing a chemistry among its new five-man core in the 28 games left before the playoffs and then re-signing Harris and Butler this summer after making two of this season’s biggest trades to get them.Harris emerged as an All-Star contender for the Clippers this season by averaging 20.9 points and 7.9 rebounds per game. His move to Philadelphia gives the Sixers another much-needed shooter (.496 from the field and .434 from 3-point range) alongside Redick.In making this trade, the Clippers ultimately decided that the draft picks Philadelphia offered were too valuable to pass up as they prepare for a big summer in which they are widely considered to be the league’s strongest threat to lure Kawhi Leonard away from the Toronto Raptors in free agency.The Clippers, at 30-25, have been one of this season’s surprise teams and sit at No. 8 in the Western Conference. But earlier this week, they also were named as one of four teams that Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans is willing to sign with long-term. This deal adds two more potentially enticing trade chips for the Clippers to offer the Pelicans for Davis — who has requested a trade — or to use in pursuit of other elite players.With Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline approaching, teams across the league, especially Philadelphia’s top rivals in the East, are running out of time to make their own moves to try to keep pace.The Boston Celtics, according to numerous reports, have been urging the Pelicans not to trade Davis until after the season, since league rules prevent Boston from trading for Davis while both he and Celtics guard Kyrie Irving are playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. The Toronto Raptors, meanwhile, have reportedly expressed trade interest in the very available Memphis Grizzlies duo of Marc Gasol and Mike Conley.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAnthony Davis has informed the New Orleans Pelicans that the Knicks are one of four teams he would be willing to sign with for the long term if he is dealt before Thursday’s trade deadline, according to a person with knowledge of his intentions who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.Davis, one of the league’s superstars in his seventh season in New Orleans, is the biggest name in play in advance of the deadline. He requested to be traded Jan. 28, with the Los Angeles Lakers pushing hardest to get a deal done.The Lakers, along with the Knicks, Los Angeles Clippers and Milwaukee Bucks, are Davis’s preferred trade destinations as he seeks a new home on a team that already has an established star or a path to acquiring multiple stars, according to the person, who was not permitted to discuss the plans publicly.The list of teams, though, is clearly topped by the Lakers. It was first reported Monday by The Athletic and ESPN.It is believed that the list of teams was given to the Pelicans in hopes of increasing the chances Davis is dealt this week. New Orleans has considerable incentive to delay trading Davis until closer to the draft in June, when the Boston Celtics — who are not on the list but have the biggest cache of trade assets for Davis — are eligible to trade for him.While Kyrie Irving is on the Celtics’ roster, Boston cannot trade for Davis since both he and Irving are under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. League rules only allow teams to have one such player on their rosters.ESPN has reported that the Celtics are urging the Pelicans to hold onto Davis until after the season to give them an opportunity to top the Lakers’ best offer, which is expected to feature the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma as well as future first-round draft picks.Even with the Lakers seemingly established as Davis’s most likely landing spot, the Knicks’ presence on the list provides a glimmer of hope in what has been a difficult season, especially over the past week, for Knicks fans. As The Times first reported, the Knicks traded their star forward, Kristaps Porzingis, to the Dallas Mavericks last week in a move that appears largely aimed at clearing cap space to make way for high-profile free agents this summer.Yet with the worst record in the league (10-42), and after years of dysfunction, the Knicks cannot be certain they will pique the interest of any of the notable players expected to be free agents this summer, such as Kevin Durant, Irving and Kawhi Leonard.Trading for Davis is realistically only possible if the Knicks win the draft lottery in May and are then willing to trade the No. 1 overall pick to New Orleans for the draft in June. But the Knicks will hope that Davis’s interest and the mere prospect of trading for him can make them a more attractive destination for the league’s top free agents.Though he has missed New Orleans’ last seven games with a finger injury, Davis is in the midst of another outstanding season. In 41 games, he is averaging career highs in points (29.3), rebounds (13.3) and assists (4.4) per game.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Vast upheaval within the Los Angeles Lakers organization continued on Friday afternoon when the team announced that Luke Walton was stepping down as coach.The Lakers said in a statement that Walton and the team had “mutually agreed to part ways,” without elaborating. The news came three days after Magic Johnson, the team’s president for basketball operations, made the surprise announcement that he was resigning so he could devote more time to his business interests.Walton, 39, was in his third season with the Lakers, who were expected to vie for a playoff spot after signing LeBron James, a four-time N.B.A. most valuable player, to a four-year, $154 million contract last July. Instead, the Lakers scuffled to a 37-45 record after months of general dysfunction and momentum-sapping injuries. They finished 10th in the Western Conference, well out of playoff position.The N.B.A.’s postseason will start Saturday but without the Lakers, whose postseason drought is now at six seasons. Not even the celebrated addition of James could salvage this one, but he missed significant time with a groin injury. And even when he was on the court, he appeared detached from his teammates as weeks of misery mounted.The Lakers are fraught with problems. When Johnson announced that he was quitting this week, he indicated that he had been planning to fire Walton and that he had the support of Jeanie Buss, the team’s controlling owner, to go forward with the move. But then Johnson resigned — in part, he said, because he could not go through with affecting someone’s “livelihood.”Hours later, after the Lakers had closed out their season with a loss to the Portland Trail Blazers, Walton said that he was looking forward to an eventful summer with the team in hopes of making improvements. Now he is gone, too, though he may not be unemployed for long.The Sacramento Kings immediately responded to Friday’s news by reaching out to Walton’s representatives to arrange an interview for their coaching vacancy, according to two people familiar with Sacramento’s plans who were not authorized to discuss them publicly. Walton is considered the front-runner to replace Dave Joerger, whom the Kings fired this week.Steve Kerr, the coach of the Golden State Warriors, expressed his support for Walton, one of his former assistants.“In this job, as a coach in the N.B.A., you are 100 percent dependent on your circumstances: the strength of your organization, the momentum, unity,” Kerr told reporters in Oakland, Calif. “Everything has to be in good order, because if it’s not, as we have witnessed with the Lakers, then there’s going to be casualties, and usually the coach is the first one.”He added: “They’re losing one of the best humans in the N.B.A. They’re losing a guy who knows the game as well as anybody I’ve met. They’re losing somebody who players believe in.”Walton, the son of the Hall of Fame center Bill Walton, was working with an ill-conceived roster that lacked depth, defense and perimeter shooting. Still, the pressure was on him before the season even began. Once the Lakers got off to a slow start, Johnson chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting, raising speculation that Walton was already on the hot seat.Questions about Walton’s job security persisted throughout the season as he shuffled rotations and lineups, searching for solutions that never materialized.Walton refused to make excuses — publicly, he was a voice of unwavering optimism amid a sea of discontent — but it hardly helped that the Lakers were troubled by injuries, especially at point guard.Then there was James, who had been incredibly durable in his 16-year career. But during the Lakers’ Christmas Day game against the Warriors, he limped off the court with a strained groin and missed the next 17 games. Without him, the Lakers struggled. The hope was that they could regain their footing once he returned, but he was not the cure-all anyone imagined. The Lakers continued to lose with James back in the lineup, even though he said he had “activated” himself for a playoff push.It had become clear by then, however, that the Lakers did not have any discernible chemistry, especially after Johnson and Rob Pelinka, their general manager, tried and failed to acquire the All-Star center Anthony Davis from the New Orleans Pelicans ahead of February’s trade deadline. (It was no coincidence, perhaps, that Davis and James shared an agent, Rich Paul.) The Lakers were willing to send the Pelicans several of their promising young players, including Kyle Kuzma, Brandon Ingram and Lonzo Ball, but were rebuffed in their attempts to swing a blockbuster deal.The result was a team that seemed distracted at best and fractured at worst. Before long, the Lakers were officially eliminated from playoff contention. James did not dress for the final six games of the season.Walton, who spent most of his 10-year N.B.A. playing career with the Lakers, winning two championships as a reserve forward, was hired as their coach in 2016 after two seasons as an assistant with the Warriors. In 2015-16, he began the season as the Warriors’ interim coach while Kerr recovered from debilitating back issues, and guided the team to a 39-4 record, which included a league-record 24 straight wins to start the season.It was certainly an achievement, but the Warriors were coming off a championship and primed to excel. With the Lakers, Walton was trying to build something. Now, that vast project — however onerous — will continue without him.Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDeMarcus Cousins is scheduled to make his long-anticipated debut with the Golden State Warriors during the team’s Los Angeles road trip later this month, according to two people with knowledge of the team’s plans.The Warriors will play the Clippers on Jan. 18 and the Lakers on Jan. 21, with Cousins expected to make his return from a torn Achilles’ tendon he sustained in January 2018 in one of those two games, according to the people, who were not authorized to discuss the situation publicly.After Golden State’s 122-95 rout of the Knicks on Tuesday night, Warriors Coach Steve Kerr would not make any promises but acknowledged that activating Cousins for either Jan. 18 or Jan. 21 is “definitely the range.”“It’s not as simple as, ‘That’s the game’ — it’s somewhere in that neighborhood,” Kerr said. “Now that we are getting closer, like I told you guys yesterday, he’s made some big strides the last week or two, conditioning-wise.”Cousins was in the midst of his best professional season with the New Orleans Pelicans last Jan. 26, when he tore his left Achilles late in a victory over the Houston Rockets.The injury cost Cousins his first career trip to the playoffs after six and a half fruitless seasons with the Sacramento Kings and also led to him signing a one-year, $5.3 million contract with the Warriors in July. The All-Star center found his options limited in free agency amid concerns about how he would recover from such a severe setback.The Warriors have been eager to see Cousins on the floor to finally address what has been one of the league’s most frequently asked questions since they signed him: How will Cousins find a niche in Golden State’s offense alongside four fellow All-Stars in Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green?“He’s a great basketball player in terms of just feel and things like that,” Curry told reporters Tuesday night. “There’s going to be some fun moments out there.“I think with the collective IQ we have in our locker room and just understanding the unselfishness around what we do that we’ll be able to figure it out hopefully quickly. But it’s going to be an adjustment for sure.”Despite a well-chronicled lack of size on its roster, Golden State has been cautious in bringing Cousins back from what has historically been one of the most unforgiving injuries for basketball players. The Warriors have never had the luxury of fielding an offensive-minded center during their run of three championships over the past four years, but the position has been even more problematic this season after the third-year big man Damian Jones, having been moved into an expanded role, suffered a season-ending shoulder injury. Jordan Bell, meanwhile, has struggled to establish a spot in Kerr’s rotation.“It’s exciting,” Thompson said of Cousins’s coming debut. “I know our fan base is excited, the N.B.A. is excited. I can’t wait to integrate him into our team. He adds a whole new dimension, especially on the block. He’s such a handful down there and with his ability to playmake.”When Cousins does finally make it onto the court, Golden State will become the first team since the Boston Celtics in 1975-76 to be able to put five All-Stars from the previous season on the court. The Celtics did it that season with a lineup of Jo Jo White, Charlie Scott, Dave Cowens, Paul Silas and John Havlicek.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinCHARLOTTE, N.C. — The New Orleans Pelicans abruptly fired Dell Demps, their general manager, on Friday amid continuing uncertainty about the future of forward Anthony Davis.In an announcement Friday, the team said that the Pelicans and Demps “decided to mutually part ways” after discussions that morning.Gayle Benson, the Pelicans’ owner, made the move after New Orleans defeated Oklahoma City at home on Thursday, according to two people who were not authorized to discuss the decision publicly.ESPN described Benson as “livid” with widely circulated television footage of Davis leaving the arena in the second half of Thursday’s game after suffering a shoulder injury, although it was later reported that he had left to undergo an M.R.I. exam.Davis arrived in Charlotte on Friday for All-Star Weekend, hoping to play in Sunday’s All-Star Game if his shoulder recovers sufficiently.Benson had been contemplating an in-season change in the front office for weeks, to start plotting a new course for the franchise without Davis, according to the two people with knowledge of the situation.Benson owns the Pelicans and the N.F.L.’s New Orleans Saints and had Demps reporting to Mickey Loomis, the Saints’ general manager. Danny Ferry, a Pelicans executive who has been a general manager in Cleveland and Atlanta, will serve as Demps’s interim replacement.It is uncertain how the change will affect the long-term future of Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry, who has won plaudits for guiding the team through the Davis saga and for largely serving as the team’s spokesman during the drama.Gentry, however, had trouble stifling his frustration after the Oklahoma City game, telling reporters of the Davis situation, “To tell you the truth, this whole thing has been a dumpster fire.”New Orleans hired Demps in July 2010. He handled the complicated exit of Chris Paul via trade in December 2011 and drafted Davis No. 1 overall in June 2012. He also traded for Jrue Holiday, a highly rated guard, and, in his biggest move, negotiated a deal for center DeMarcus Cousins, then with Sacramento, during the 2017 All-Star Weekend in New Orleans.The Pelicans, though, made the playoffs just three times in Demps’s eight seasons and have consistently suffered from a lack of depth in support of Davis and Holiday. New Orleans appeared to be trending in a good direction last season, with Davis flanked by Cousins and Holiday, but Cousins sustained a season-ending Achilles’ tendon tear in January 2018 that ultimately led to his departure through free agency last summer.Plagued by a steady stream of injuries this season, New Orleans has not been able to match its performance last season: a 48-34 regular-season record even after losing Cousins and a first-round playoff sweep of the Portland Trail Blazers.Davis, through his agent Rich Paul, requested a trade Jan. 28 when he informed the Pelicans that he would not sign a five-year, $240 million contract extension the club can offer him July 1. The request came just 10 days before the league’s annual trade deadline, leaving little time to construct a trade with sufficient return for a player of his caliber.But New Orleans immediately made it clear that it intended to keep Davis through the deadline and into the off-season, when other teams — the Boston Celtics in particular — would be in a better position to make a compelling offer.Davis is under contract through next season, but it has been widely anticipated throughout the league that New Orleans would have to trade him as soon as it was clear Davis planned to reject an extension.N.B.A. players are not allowed to openly seek trades, and Davis was fined $50,000 because Paul went public with his client’s request.In an interview Thursday with a small group of reporters, Charles Barkley, the Hall of Famer and outspoken TNT commentator, blasted Davis and Paul for the timing of the trade demand. Barkley said Davis’s winding up with the Lakers has been a likely outcome from the moment Davis hired Paul as his agent in September. Paul also represents LeBron James, the Lakers’ superstar.“At some point Anthony Davis is going to be with the Lakers,” Barkley said. “The fix is in. I actually got a call from Rich Paul. I said: ‘Dude, the fix is in. You know he’s going to the Lakers.’“This is a bad situation,” Barkley said. “This is a bad look for the N.B.A.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Sopan DebBOSTON — Jayson Tatum boomed on LeBron James in last year’s N.B.A. playoffs. You may remember it. Tatum, the 21-year-old swingman for the Boston Celtics, certainly does.The dunk drew a “wow” from the play-by-play broadcaster Mike Breen. A reporter wrote on Twitter that in the locker room afterward, he overheard James saying that Tatum had “boomed” him, before James repeated four times, “He’s so good.”“I’ve got a big-ass picture of it in my house,” Tatum said in a post-practice interview on Tuesday.The dunk came in the fourth quarter of Game 7 of last year’s Eastern Conference finals. Starting from outside the 3-point line, Tatum took two dribbles with his left hand to get to the rim before hammering a right-handed dunk past James, who attempted a block as a helpless defender. Tatum followed the booming with a chest bump of James, one of his boyhood idols, as if to say, “I’m here.”The Celtics lost that game, but the dunk solidified Tatum, who played one season at Duke, as an emerging N.B.A. star.After the Celtics’ disappointing regular-season run this season, Tatum’s star hasn’t been as bright so far in these playoffs as Boston faces the Indiana Pacers in the first round. He did not make the leap many had thought he would: While he improved as a rebounder and passer, his shot selection led to more long 2-pointers, causing his true shooting percentage to dip from .586 in his rookie campaign to .547 this year, placing him below .560, the league average.He increased his frequency of midrange jumpers but decreased his accuracy in making them: 37 percent, down from 44 percent. Many of his advanced metric statistics, including win shares per 48 minutes, value over replacement player and box plus/minus, were worse this year.Tatum finds himself in an unusual spot, compared with fellow N.B.A. sophomores like Utah’s Donovan Mitchell and Philadelphia’s Ben Simmons. The better Tatum plays, especially in this postseason, the more likely he is to be linked to trade rumors, particularly those involving Anthony Davis, the New Orleans Pelicans star who has requested a trade that could shift the competitive balance in the N.B.A.Several college starters in this year’s Final Four were older than Tatum. But if he cannot live up to the hype he created in last year’s playoffs — that is, if he becomes just another guard — the Pelicans may be more likely to accept a package from the Los Angeles Lakers or another team besides Boston. At the same time, if Celtics point guard Kyrie Irving opts for free agency this summer, the future of the franchise may rest on Tatum’s shoulders. At barely 21, he’d be the alpha.Tatum’s future is more uncertain than many other players who have received significant early acclaim. But one way or another, the Celtics need Tatum to be great. Not just for this year’s playoffs, but for the future.In short, they need him to boom.In a conversation at the Celtics’ practice facility about his future and the atypical stakes, Tatum had talking points at the ready, ones that he had delivered multiple times before. He stared straight ahead, not making eye contact, as if he were running through the script in his head.“Trade rumors don’t bother me,” he said in his deep monotone. “They’re talking about trading me for guys like Anthony Davis. So, I mean, I must be doing something pretty well.” When pressed on whether this bothered him, he didn’t budge: “I love the game of basketball. Being traded is part of the game. I’ll play for whomever. It’s something I can’t control.”He didn’t have much more to say than that. But that is Tatum’s personality, Brad Stevens, the Celtics’ head coach, said. No distractions. That, Stevens said, is his best quality.“Circumstances don’t affect him,” Stevens said. “First game of the season, he’s unaffected by the jitters that everybody has. Seventh game of a playoff series? Unaffected. At least, he shows himself to be unaffected, and he can thrive in that environment.”Stevens said Tatum’s quality of play had improved as he got deeper into the season. He became a better passer, averaging 2.8 assists after the All-Star break, compared with 1.9 before. But his shooting dipped, from 38 percent from deep before the break to 35 percent afterward.Last season, Tatum benefited from the low expectations for the Celtics after injuries to Irving, forward Gordon Hayward and the reserve center Daniel Theis. But he also helped carry Boston to within one win of an unlikely N.B.A. finals appearance. This year, “unlikely” is not in the playoff vocabulary. The Celtics are supposed to get there. And Boston’s fans, never the most positive bunch, can turn on a player in a second. If the Celtics do not advance, after many analysts predicted they would, fans may view Tatum’s season in a harsh light, given how much of the franchise’s fortunes are tied up with him.Tatum said he was not as nervous about the playoffs this time around. Taking a daily pregame nap with his 16-month-old son has helped. The early returns have been positive: In the first game of the series against the Pacers, Tatum scored 15 points on 11 shots. He was plus-11 in 34 minutes as the Celtics ran away with a win. In Game 2, Tatum was even better. He scored 26 points on 20 shots, including multiple thunderous dunks in the fourth quarter, helping Boston take a 2-0 lead in the series.But there hasn’t been a highlight that has matched the dunk on James. Tatum shook his head no when asked if he had ever talked to James about that play. A hint of a grin betrayed his practiced demeanor.“They won, so they got the last laugh,” Tatum said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The Los Angeles Lakers described last weekend’s N.B.A. All-Star break as an opportunity for a much-needed reset, with the hope that they could ultimately make a playoff push after spending a few days apart. None of it sounded very convincing.But when the team reconvened for practice on Wednesday morning, LeBron James said his level of intensity had been “activated,” as if he were a superhero who had flipped a switch. He does not usually activate himself this early in the season, he said, but the Lakers need all of him now — in large part because they had lost so much ground when he was sidelined for about a month with a groin injury.“We would have loved to have had success when I was out, but we didn’t, so this is where we are right now,” James said.And when asked how he would elevate the play of his younger teammates, he put it simply: “We don’t have a choice.”In other words, it was sink or swim for the Lakers before their game against the Houston Rockets on Thursday night, and there would be no lifeguard.For one night, at least, the Lakers swam. They were cohesive enough to come away with a 111-106 victory against one of the better teams in the Western Conference. For one night, at least, the Lakers showed that they could erase a 19-point deficit by playing solid defense and making their free throws. For one night, at least, the Lakers could depend on players like Brandon Ingram (27 points, 13 rebounds) and Kyle Kuzma (18 points) to deliver in a game that the team really needed to win.The question now is whether the Lakers, who at 29-29 are the very definition of average, can build off it. Consistency has not been their hallmark.“It can give us some momentum that we need,” Coach Luke Walton said, “or it can do nothing. It depends how we respond to this.”Not so long ago, the Lakers had a similarly galvanizing win — or so it seemed.It was Feb. 7, and before the league’s trade deadline Magic Johnson, the team’s president of basketball operations, had failed in his quest to ship nearly half of the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans in exchange for the All-Star center Anthony Davis. It was a huge soap opera, and the Lakers responded in surprising fashion: by going out that night and defeating the Boston Celtics — on the road, no less.The win, though, was fool’s gold. The Lakers got pulverized by the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, then hobbled into the All-Star break with a loss to the Atlanta Hawks — a performance so devoid of energy that it seemed to signal a dysfunctional locker room, and maybe even one that was beyond repair.The team was below .500.Walton encouraged his players to reflect and refocus over the break. For James, that meant returning to Los Angeles in playoff mode — much earlier than he would prefer.But this is unfamiliar territory for James, a three-time champion who has made 13 straight trips to the playoffs and eight straight appearances in the N.B.A. finals. Now, with an inexperienced batch of teammates on the Lakers, he is merely fighting to lead them into the postseason.“I’m all about being uncomfortable,” he said this week. “I love being uncomfortable. I fall in love with being uncomfortable, so this is another uncomfortable thing for me, and I love it.”Then he must have loved what happened against the Rockets (33-25), who built a gaping lead in the third quarter behind James Harden. But the Lakers dominated the fourth quarter by limiting the Rockets to 36.8 percent shooting and forcing six turnovers. James finished with 29 points, 11 rebounds and 6 assists.“He’s had more of a serious focus on his face, about him, the last two days, even in the practice facility,” Walton said, adding: “I think he recognizes where we’re at and the sense of urgency we need to play with.”The Lakers also benefited from the fresh presence of Reggie Bullock, a versatile wing whom they acquired from the Detroit Pistons at the trade deadline. Bullock scored 14 points and defended the Rockets’ James Harden for long stretches. For a team that lacks much experience, Bullock could make a difference moving forward.“He’s a vet,” James said. “It’s great to have a shooter of his caliber, of his size; his competitive nature out on the floor. He was big for us.”The Lakers left Staples Center two and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final playoff spot in the West. But James expressed supreme confidence as the team prepared to visit the Pelicans on Saturday.“I like where I’m at,” he said. “I will love where I’m at in the next few games, and I believe — continue to get better and better.”As for his teammates — well, that is up to them.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPORTLAND, Ore. — After eight straight playoff losses over the past two years, the Portland Trail Blazers finally got a win.Damian Lillard scored 30 points and the third-seeded Blazers opened their series against the No. 6 Oklahoma City Thunder on Sunday with a 104-99 victory."We know how it feels to win again," Lillard said. "Now we can just kind of move on from that and stay focused on this series."Portland was swept by New Orleans last season and the Warriors the year before.Enes Kanter added 20 points and a career playoff-high 18 rebounds for the Blazers, who were making their sixth straight postseason appearance. CJ McCollum added 24 points.Russell Westbrook had 24 points, 10 assists and 10 rebounds for his ninth career postseason triple-double. Paul George, who was a game-time decision because of a sore shoulder, added 26 points and 10 rebounds despite a rough shooting night.Westbrook appeared to hurt his right ankle in the final quarter and grimaced while trying to walk it off. Trainers attended to him on the bench at the next timeout but he returned and his layup closed the gap to 91-87 with just under 4 minutes left.Asked about it afterward, Westbrook said: "We'll see."After trailing by as many as 19 points in the first half, Oklahoma City pulled within as 93-92 on George's 3-pointer with 2:44 left. Lillard answered with a long 3-pointer to keep the Blazers ahead and Al-Farouq Aminu made free throws to extend Portland's lead to 98-92.George made a 3-pointer with 8.2 seconds remaining to get the Thunder within 100-97 but Portland hung on."We knew it was going to be a fight all night long. Even at the beginning of the game when we were up like 17 at one point, I wasn't looking at the scoreboard like, 'Let's put them away." I was like, 'Let's just stay solid, keep competing, keep playing hard,' Lillard said. "And then when they make their runs, and when they get back in the game, (you) just weather those storms."It was the first postseason meeting between the teams since the Thunder moved from Seattle to Oklahoma City.Oklahoma City beat the Blazers in all four meetings this season, including a heated 129-121 overtime victory on March 7.The Thunder have been to the playoffs for eight of the last nine seasons, but they haven't gotten past the opening round for the past two.George was nursing a sore right shoulder and was considered day-to-day for Sunday's game but he started. However he was just 1 of 6 from the floor in the opening quarter. For the game, he made four of 15 3-point attempts."Four days ago I couldn't even lift my shoulder," he said. "Then fast forward to today this is the first day I've even shot the ball, so for me it's just rhythm."George missed the Thunder' regular-season finale Wednesday at Milwaukee because of the nagging injury, which also kept him out of games on Feb. 28, March 2 and March 3.McCollum missed 10 games down the stretch with a left knee strain and had only played in two games since returning. But he started and hit his first two 3-point attempts.The Blazers' hopes for postseason success were dealt a blow last month when center Jusuf Nurkic was lost for the season with a broken left leg. Nurkic was averaging 15.6 points and 10.4 rebounds when he sustained the gruesome injury during a game against the Brooklyn Nets.Kanter, signed just before the All-Star break after he was waived by the New York Knicks, has started in Nurkic's place.The Thunder rallied from a 19-point deficit in the first half to trail by just 54-48 at the break. But they struggled from 3-point range, making just two of 18 attempts.There was simmering tension between the teams. Terrance Ferguson and McCollum had a heated exchange in the second quarter, earning technical fouls. Ferguson earned his third foul and headed to the bench.Westbrook's layup got the Thunder within 64-60, but he collected his fourth foul late in the third and went to the bench. The Blazers went into the fourth quarter with a 76-69 lead.The Thunder's only lead was in the opening quarter."It's a series. First to four. They won the first game," Westbrook said. "Now we make adjustments, come back, play harder next game and try to take it."TIP-INS:Thunder: While the Thunder swept the Blazers 4-0 during the regular season, Portland swept them in four games the season before.Trail Blazers: Blazers coach Terry Stotts concluded his pregame talk with the media by saying. "All right. Masters." The Blazers were 8-8 in the postseason against the SuperSonics. ... Portland had won the last eight regular-season games at the Moda Center. ... Kanter had his third playoff double-double. ... The Blazers haven't made it out of the first round for the past two seasons. Last year as a No. 3 seed Portland got swept by the New Orleans Pelicans.KANTER'S DAYIn just his ninth start with the Blazers, Kanter became just the third player in team history with at least 20 points and 18 rebounds in playoff game. Bill Walton did it three times and LaMarcus Aldridge once."He gave us a lot of toughness inside," Stotts said. "Obviously, his rebounding and scoring. I thought his conditioning was really good. He maintained a high level of play for a long period of time."UP NEXT: Game 2 is Tuesday night at the Moda Center.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAnthony Davis has the Knicks on equal footing with the Los Angeles Lakers as he considers what teams he would be willing to join on a long-term deal after securing a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans, according to two people with knowledge of Davis’s thinking.A trade to any team did not appear imminent Wednesday night, as Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline drew near. But Davis’s recent request to be traded did not include a demand that the move happen before the deadline, according to the people, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the situation publicly.The Knicks have won only one playoff series over the past 18 seasons and their public image has suffered under the ownership of James L. Dolan. But the lure of playing in one of the league’s most attractive markets along with the way the Knicks have positioned themselves to pursue marquee free agents after trading away their franchise player, Kristaps Porzingis, have resonated with Davis, according to the people.The Lakers had been aggressively trying to complete a trade for Davis with the Pelicans before the deadline, because the Boston Celtics — who have been planning a trade run at Davis for months — cannot trade for the All-Star forward while Kyrie Irving is on the Celtics’ roster. (Davis and Irving are both playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions; league rules preclude teams from fielding more than one such player.)The Lakers, however, backed out of trade talks for Davis on Tuesday, according to The Los Angeles Times. ESPN reported Wednesday night that there had been no communication Wednesday between New Orleans General Manager Dell Demps and Lakers President Magic Johnson.The Knicks, who unsuccessfully attempted to interest New Orleans in a Porzingis-headlined trade for Davis last month, could still make offers for Davis up to Thursday’s deadline. But they might fare better after the draft lottery in May, when the Knicks’ position in the June 20 draft is cemented.Thanks in part to the Porzingis trade, the Knicks have amassed seven first-round picks over the next five years to go with a core of promising young players headlined by Kevin Knox and the newly acquired Dennis Smith Jr. Skepticism permeates the Knicks’ fan base as the team appears headed toward its sixth successive non-playoff season, but their trade assets position the Knicks to make a legitimate run at Davis before a big free-agent summer. In the off-season, the Knicks plan to use the significant salary-cap space opened by the Porzingis deal to pursue marquee free agents such as Golden State’s Kevin Durant and Irving in Boston.The Knicks are aware of Davis’s strong interest in playing in New York, according to the people. Either way, though, Davis is leaning toward playing out his current contract and becoming a free agent in July 2020 no matter where he is traded.Since Davis lodged his trade request on Jan. 28, there have been numerous reports that he is not willing to sign a long-term contract with the Celtics, but Sports Illustrated and the Boston Herald were among the news media outlets to report this week that Celtics officials had urged the Pelicans to hold off on trading Davis until the off-season, insisting that Boston could produce an offer that would trump any competing proposals.The Los Angeles Clippers and the Milwaukee Bucks are the other two teams, along with the Lakers and Knicks, with whom Davis has indicated a willingness to sign for the long term.Davis has missed six games with a finger injury but was seeking to play in both of New Orleans’ games this week. The Pelicans, however, opted to hold Davis out while working on trades and have not yet disclosed whether they plan to allow Davis to return to the lineup if he is not traded this week. Davis, according to a person with knowledge of his thinking, would like to play out the season with the Pelicans if no trade materializes before the deadline, despite the fact that the injury risk would be significant for both player and team.The trade saga has rocked both the Pelicans and the Lakers. Los Angeles suffered a 42-point defeat Tuesday night amid the constant speculation about the Lakers trying to package Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma with draft picks to acquire Davis with a goal of pairing one of the game’s best big men with the LeBron James. Both Davis and James are represented by the agent Rich Paul.Despite having missed 14 games through injury, Davis is in the midst of another outstanding season. In 41 games, he is averaging career highs in points (29.3), rebounds (13.3) and assists (4.4) per game and has been selected by Western Conference coaches to appear in the Feb. 17 All-Star Game in Charlotte.Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe All-Star Anthony Davis shook the N.B.A. out of its sleepy run-up to the league’s annual trade deadline on Monday by formally requesting a trade away from the New Orleans Pelicans.Rich Paul, Davis’s agent, confirmed Monday via text message that he had personally notified Pelicans General Manager Dell Demps that Davis wants to be moved, in conjunction with Paul informing them that Davis would not sign an estimated $240 million contract extension that New Orleans planned to offer in July at the first allowable moment.The Pelicans responded with a forceful statement in which they implored the league to monitor the situation for potential tampering violations and declared that its roster moves would not be “dictated by those outside of our organization.”Statement from the New Orleans Pelicans regarding Anthony Davis: https://t.co/6GRRcpZMt5 pic.twitter.com/TrrkOpU2ABIt has been widely assumed in league circles that the Pelicans would be forced to trade Davis if he signaled he was unwilling to sign a contract extension, or if he took the step of formally requesting a trade, rather than face the prospect of losing the 6-foot-10 Davis, one of the league’s best players, without compensation.Yet it is unclear if New Orleans will accommodate Davis’s demand quickly or let the season’s most closely watched trade drama drag beyond the Feb. 7 trade deadline. Many rival executives expect the Pelicans to go the latter route, since they may receive stronger trade offers starting in mid-May, once the order is set for June’s N.B.A. draft.“They haven’t said much,” Paul said of whether New Orleans officials had revealed their thinking. “But we wanted to do the right thing to let them know by the deadline so they could do what’s best for the organization going forward.”Paul also said he had not yet given New Orleans a preferred trade destination for Davis. But Davis realistically will have a huge say in where he lands by virtue of his ability to become a free agent in July 2020; any team looking to acquire him this year would be unlikely to surrender meaningful trade assets for a player it could not be certain of re-signing.Several hours after news of Davis’s trade request became public, New Orleans issued a terse statement which said: “Relative to specific talks of a trade, we will do this on our timeline — one that makes sense for our team.” The team added: “We have also requested the league to strictly enforce the tampering rules associated with this transaction.”The last sentence could be interpreted as a reference to Paul’s longtime relationship with his star client — LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers — since the Lakers have been considered the league’s most ardent suitor for Davis for months.Davis also faces possible league discipline because the N.B.A. typically fines players when they, or their representatives, publicly request a trade.“We commenced an investigation this morning upon reading the reports regarding Anthony Davis,” the N.B.A. spokesman Mike Bass said Monday. “That process is ongoing.”Teams such as the Knicks and Davis’s hometown Chicago Bulls are among the many clubs expected to join the Lakers in pursuing a trade for Davis over the days leading to the 3 p.m. trade deadline on Feb. 7. Yet it might behoove New Orleans to wait until closer to the draft to get serious about dealing its franchise player.That is because the Boston Celtics, regarded for some time as the Lakers’ foremost challenger in the long-anticipated trade sweepstakes for Davis, are ineligible to acquire Davis via trade while the All-Star guard Kyrie Irving is on Boston’s roster. League rules preclude one team from having two players on the designated rookie scale contract extensions possessed by both Davis and Irving.With a record of 22-28 in a season marred by numerous injuries, New Orleans had slipped to 13th in the Western Conference entering Monday’s play and looked increasingly unlikely to make a playoff run. The Pelicans, though, are under no obligation to trade Davis and could decide to wait until after the season, when the Celtics would be able to join the bidding. Irving has the ability to become a free agent on July 1 by declining the $21.3 million player option he holds for next season.Knicks Coach David Fizdale tried to downplay his team’s interest in Davis on Monday. But the Knicks — who were already planning to make a free-agent run in July at the likes of Kevin Durant and Irving — could emerge as a team to watch for Davis if they show a willingness to make trade assets such as the star forward Kristaps Porzingis, their prized rookie Kevin Knox and this June’s likely top-five draft pick part of any discussions.Although Davis has missed the Pelicans’ last four games with a finger injury, Coach Alvin Gentry told reporters Monday that he expects Davis back in the lineup soon. Davis, according to Gentry, plans to play out the season even if New Orleans elects to keep him past next week’s trade deadline.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. season unofficially began with a superstar’s trade demand before the superstar in question (Jimmy Butler) and his team at the time (Minnesota) had even convened for training camp.Seven months and more than 1,200 games later, Magic Johnson upstaged the retirements of two legends — Dirk Nowitzki and Dwyane Wade — in unbecoming fashion by abruptly walking away from Jeanie Buss, LeBron James and the rest of the Los Angeles Lakers through a chaotic hour of unscheduled interviews with the news media.And there were countless dramas and controversies between those bookends, from the Houston Rockets’ poor start and near-instant divorce from Carmelo Anthony ... to the sad disintegration of the New Orleans Pelicans’ season after Anthony Davis’s trade demand … to the Lakers’ injury-driven collapse that ultimately prevented King James from reaching the postseason for the first time in 14 years.Regular season? Hardly. From Butler’s trade request to Friday’s announcement from the Lakers that they were parting ways with Coach Luke Walton, it was an exhausting ride. Yet we’ve finally arrived where we wanted to be all along: Saturday’s start of the playoffs.The overriding question now, as we step off that roller coaster and onto another, remains Golden State-centric for the fourth successive spring:Can anyone out there beat the Warriors four times in a seven-game series?My answer remains a firm no. But what will make this postseason unlike any other, beyond LeBron’s absence, is the array of ancillary questions sure to sprout about the futures of the Warriors and many of the teams chasing them.Only 80 days away, remember, is the July 1 start of a free-agent frenzy that is bound to be strongly influenced by playoff results. The principals: Golden State’s Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and DeMarcus Cousins; Boston’s Kyrie Irving; Toronto’s Kawhi Leonard; Philadelphia’s Tobias Harris and Butler; Milwaukee’s Khris Middleton; Charlotte’s Kemba Walker; and Orlando’s Nikola Vucevic.Just to name 10 past, present and future All-Stars.“I think this summer is going to be the most pivotal time in N.B.A. history,” said Charles Barkley, Turner Sports’ Hall of Fame analyst. “It’s going to dictate the next five years.”Any chance the Raptors have of persuading Leonard to stay in Canada, after months of noise suggesting that the Los Angeles Clippers are the front-runners to sign him, would seem to depend on a run to the N.B.A. finals. The Raptors are indeed my pick to get there by winning the post-LeBron East, but the high stakes involved, along with Toronto’s tortured playoff history, will weigh heavily on this team despite its potential as a defensive juggernaut.The pressure is even more tangible in Philadelphia thanks to the 76ers’ all-in trades for Harris and Butler. Those two, along with the sharpshooting J J Redick, are all free agents-to-be. It’s a lot for Sixers Coach Brett Brown to manage, especially when his best player, Joel Embiid, may not be available for the start of Philadelphia’s first-round series with the Nets because of a knee issue that has lingered since the All-Star Game. Whispers about Brown’s job security, as a result, are starting to circulate.Uncertainty likewise smothers the Celtics, who failed to even win 50 games and openly grappled with chemistry issues after finding the reintegration of Irving and Gordon Hayward, the former All-Star swingman, far more complicated than anyone — Boston officials included — expected. Fears of a two-round injury absence for the rugged guard Marcus Smart don’t help, with the looming specter of Irving’s free agency and a possible trade pursuit of Davis adding to the tension.Milwaukee, meanwhile, has the statistical profile of a team that should be heavily favored to represent the East in the finals and potentially take down the Warriors — except for the fact that the next playoff series won by the otherworldly Giannis Antetokounmpo will be his first. The Bucks are the only team in the league that ranked in the top five in offensive and defensive efficiency, but I confess to being one of those old-school pundits hung up on their lack of big-game experience.Denver is the West’s answer to Milwaukee and proof as a No. 2 seed that there were some uplifting tales to celebrate amid all of the transactional chaos and personality conflicts that tend to dominate the league’s slice of the social media universe. But the Nuggets’ own inexperience didn’t just steer me away from naming them as the Warriors’ top threat in the conference — it makes them vulnerable in Round 1 against San Antonio.It’s Houston, then, which stands as the team most capable of derailing the Warriors’ bid for a three-peat. Houston’s problem is that a costly slip to the No. 4 seed in the West dropped it into Golden State’s half of the playoff bracket. The Rockets now must face the Utah Jazz in a first-round matchup featuring the hottest (Houston went 20-5) and third-hottest (Utah went 18-7) teams since the All-Star break.For all the talk that the Rockets may benefit from a rematch with the Warriors in the conference semifinals rather than the West finals, when James Harden and Chris Paul are theoretically fresher, it may actually be Golden State that benefits the most from watching Houston and Utah beating each other up so early.The Warriors won’t refuse the help, either, because their veterans and coaches would undoubtedly argue that their regular-season grind is longer than anyone’s after four consecutive trips to the championship round. Ceaseless speculation about Durant’s potential free-agent defection to the Knicks or the Nets — yes, I’m indeed warning you now not to sleep on Brooklyn — has only added to Coach Steve Kerr’s daily challenge to keep his team focused.Another warning: Don’t forget that the Warriors tend to find that focus quickly once the calendar flips to the postseason. So many of their last 82 games were billed as uncharacteristically joyless, but Golden State is 32-6 in the playoffs since adding Durant.As long as Stephen Curry’s ankle scare earlier this week scare proves as minor as it appeared, bank on the Warriors to become the first team in 52 seasons — out of the 744 teams to reach the playoffs in that time — to make a fifth straight finals appearance. And then snag title No. 4 to cement themselves as indisputably dynastic.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Stephen Curry was about 25 minutes into a news conference here on Saturday afternoon when a magician who goes by the name Jibrizy sidled up to the dais to do a card trick. Curry, the Golden State Warriors point guard, seemed impressed.“That was nice, big fella,” Curry said. “That was crazy. Y’all see that? Did y’all see that? What’s your name, boss? Jibrizy? Nice to meet you, man. Fire. You’re fire. That’s what’s up.”Lots of weird stuff tends to happen during N.B.A. All-Star weekend, and a cameo by Jibrizy was no exception. But it was also the rare instance when the spotlight left Curry, if only for a moment, in the run-up to the weekend’s flagship game on Sunday.Curry, a six-time All-Star and two-time most valuable player who has already coaxed Golden State to three championships, is used to lots of attention. But he relished his return to Charlotte, where he grew up to become perhaps the greatest shooter of all time — and where he is still revered.“From the time I started playing basketball at 5, right down the street at the recreation center, to now, a lot has happened,” Curry said. “A lot of great things.”Curry was not so great Sunday, but that was not the point. He finished with 17 points, 9 rebounds and 7 assists for Team Giannis in a 178-164 loss to Team LeBron in the All-Star Game, which was a defense-free postscript to a weekend that was a Curry family affair.“Incredibly fond of the family,” Commissioner Adam Silver told reporters. “They seem to be the first family of Charlotte, at least this week.”For much of his trip home, Curry was accompanied by his father, Dell, who spent 10 seasons playing for the Charlotte Hornets, and his mother, Sonya, who drilled a half-court heave after the family helped refurbish a community center. It was probably the family’s splashiest shot of the weekend.“I was surprised,” Stephen Curry said, “because the first four she flung underhand, they didn’t make it to the rim. And then that last one, it just looked good from the moment it left her hand, and I was going, ‘Wham, bam, can of ham! That’s going in!’ ”Curry had less success in Saturday night’s 3-point shootout, where he was joined by his younger brother, Seth, who plays for the Portland Trail Blazers. Stephen Curry made it to the championship round before losing to Joe Harris of the Brooklyn Nets.But Curry had also found time to return to Davidson College, his alma mater, where he clambered into the student section to celebrate an 80-72 victory over St. Joseph’s on Friday night.“The energy in the building was unbelievable,” Curry said. “It’s surreal every time I get to go back there.”The following afternoon, Curry swayed in a sea of reporters (and at least one magician) as he fielded a wide-ranging mix of questions.What did it mean to him to be back in Charlotte? “It’s kind of overwhelming to be honest,” he said. “I’ve got to be like the Energizer bunny.”Could he say something nice to all his fans in the Dominican Republic? “I’ve been there, and I hope to go back,” he said.Did he have a favorite basketball-themed movie? “Probably ‘Love & Basketball,’ ” he said. “I’m a romantic, bro.”During warm-ups for Sunday’s game, Curry mimicked a game of volleyball with Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, posted up a ball boy so that he could take an entry pass from Oklahoma City Thunder point guard Russell Westbrook, made chitchat with bigwigs who were courtside and jacked his share of 30-footers. Most of them went in. All-Star weekend is a circus, but it is still basketball, after all, and Curry has unique skills.He is assembling another spectacular season, even if his work has been overshadowed by fellow All-Stars like James Harden of the Houston Rockets, Paul George of the Thunder and Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo. Curry has been so consistently good for so long now — and his team so dominant — that perhaps some of the novelty has worn off. It is unfair, of course.If his feats feel too familiar, consider his production this season: 28.6 points, 5.2 assists and 5.1 rebounds per game while shooting 48.8 percent from the field and 44.4 percent from 3-point range. He missed 11 games with a groin injury but spent part of that time gluing the Warriors’ locker room back together after Kevin Durant and Draymond Green had a big dust-up.The friction stemmed from Durant’s looming free agency, which has been a steady hum of distraction for the Warriors. But Curry has been a stabilizing force for his team — and even for the league.With a contract that runs through the 2021-22 season, Curry has not had to face pressing questions about his future. He is committed to the Warriors, and the Warriors appear committed to him. He is a throwback in an era dominated by player movement, the current face of which is Anthony Davis, the All-Star center who recently requested a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans. So many other stars face uncertain summers, too: Durant, Kyrie Irving and Kawhi Leonard among them.But Curry has his niche in Northern California, even if his roots are in North Carolina. After Sunday’s game, he described trying to persuade his father to move to the Bay Area, where Curry has settled in with his wife, Ayesha, and their three children.Dell Curry, who is a color commentator for the Hornets, always says no.“This is where home is for him,” Stephen Curry said.And for Stephen Curry, the whereabouts of his father seem to be the only player movements on his mind. Curry said he was unconcerned with free agency this summer and the potential departures of his teammates.“That’s a part of the business,” Curry said. “But the great teams, the great players, they stay in the moment and they understand what’s in front of them.”And so, after taking a weekend to dip into his past, Curry returned to looking ahead. The journey goes on.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaATLANTA — Kyle Kuzma had his first interaction with LeBron James a little more than a year ago, when Kuzma was a first-year forward with the Los Angeles Lakers and James was a few months from dragging the Cleveland Cavaliers to another appearance in the N.B.A. finals. Kuzma had reached out by phone, hoping for some tips.“Just wanted to see how one of the greats takes care of his body and has so much longevity,” Kuzma recalled this week in an interview. “Everybody wants to play basketball for as long as possible.”So much has changed since that initial conversation. Kuzma and James are teammates now, and Kuzma is experiencing the unique challenges that come with playing alongside one of the game’s behemoths. At the same time, James’s body finally betrayed him this season, which has only heightened the sense of urgency within the organization: The Lakers, who have missed the playoffs for five years running, are not in position for a patient rebuild.James, at 34, may still be in his prime, but the stakes are already high for a franchise that desperately wants to maximize his time in Los Angeles. And while neither James nor Lakers management has shown much enthusiasm for coaxing along a young core — the Lakers tried to ship half the roster to New Orleans last week — they are stuck in this together. James was supposed to be the savior of a flagship franchise gone astray; salvaging the final months of this year would be a key indicator that he still wields that type of power.“We have to approach the rest of the season just like you would during the playoffs,” Kuzma said.As Kuzma recalled his talk with James, he had no way of knowing that the Lakers were mere hours from suffering one final implosion before the N.B.A. All-Star break — a 117-113 loss to the Atlanta Hawks that left the team with a losing record and ample opportunity for soul searching.“It’s time for us to get away and reflect a little bit about where we are as a group,” Coach Luke Walton said. “I think this first part of the season, we’ve gone through a lot of adversity. And we’re probably not where we want to be, but we’re still close enough.”Close enough, that is, for vying for a spot in the playoffs, which was both an indication of the team’s modest goals and its sad reality. At 28-29, the Lakers are in 10th place in the Western Conference standings. It is unfamiliar territory for James, who has not been on a losing team this late in a season since he was a first-year forward with the Cavaliers.“But with LeBron on your team, anything is possible,” said Mychal Thompson, a power forward for the Showtime-era Lakers and an analyst for the team’s radio broadcasts. “I mean, look at some of the teams he’s taken to the finals — including last season. He’s capable of doing great things if you just get on board and run with him.”The Lakers, though, seem fragile after nearly five months of drama — all of it stemming directly or indirectly from the $154 million deal that James signed to join the team last summer. The pressure was on from the start, and little has gone according to plan.“There’s been more noise this year,” Walton said, “but that was to be expected with the moves in the off-season. That was something to be anticipated.”Where to begin? Brandon Ingram and Rajon Rondo were suspended for trying to brawl with the Houston Rockets two games into the season. Magic Johnson, the team’s outspoken president of basketball operations, chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting for the team’s slow start, igniting lasting questions about Walton’s job security. Nearly every player on the roster has been injured, and that includes James, who missed 17 games with a strained groin.And lest we forget: Last week, Johnson and General Manager Rob Pelinka tried to trade away nearly half the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans for Anthony Davis, who, before the start of the season, hired the same agent who represents James. It was the clearest sign yet that Johnson is willing to attempt the very boldest moves — no matter the residual damage.Consider that the Lakers, amid their ultimately fruitless effort to pry Davis away from the Pelicans, lost by 42 points to the Indiana Pacers. And with rumors of which Lakers would be traded swirling through social media, it was difficult to find arguments in their defense — even from James himself.Kuzma, who was offered up as one of the pieces in a potential deal, said it had been difficult to drown out the noise.“It’s definitely tough,” he said, “because this generation, you’re always on your phone, always on social media, always seeing it somewhere on TV.”But the trade deadline passed, and the roster more or less remained intact. There had been a sense that a surprising win against the Boston Celtics on Feb. 7 would galvanize the team in the wake of so much uncertainty. And even after losing to the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, the Lakers still had a chance to build some momentum against the Hawks on Tuesday.Before the game, James appeared to be in an upbeat mood. In the locker room, he knelt on a giant inflatable ball as he worked on some core-strengthening exercises. He crooned the lyrics to “Plug Walk” by the hip-hop artist Rich the Kid. He made small talk with Ingram. It was all vintage James.About three hours later, once the Lakers had punctuated their loss with a turnover, James made a beeline off the court and into the tunnel. He was practically steaming. He had finished with his fifth triple-double of the season — 28 points, 16 assists, 11 rebounds — but the Lakers’ defense was as porous as a coffee filter, and the result was just as messy.“I can throw that game in the trash,” James said.In a three-minute postgame session with reporters, Kuzma mentioned the concept of “fun” five times — specifically, the notion that the Lakers were not having much of it.“A lot of times we’re out there with sad faces, very focused faces,” Kuzma said. “But I think we’re at our best when we’re having fun.”Fun may not be the primary objective for James, and the psychic effects of the loss are sure to linger until at least Feb. 21, when their season will resume after the All-Star break with a home game against the Houston Rockets. For now, though, the best thing for these players may be to be away from each other for a while, which was one of Walton’s suggestions before they parted for the break.“Spend some time by yourself,” he said, and added: “I think we’ve got a group that will be ready by the time we get back.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAt the end of a dizzying frenzy of trades in the N.B.A., featuring 24 deals in one week, Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans stayed put — for now.Yet there was plenty of action to make up for the lack of a Davis trade, with two of the four title hopefuls in the Eastern Conference making significant acquisitions before Thursday afternoon’s trade deadline, intensifying the race at the top of the East after Philadelphia’s big trade earlier this week.In the most significant deadline-day deals, Toronto acquired the former All-Star center Marc Gasol from Memphis, while Milwaukee imported the sharpshooting forward Nikola Mirotic from New Orleans as part of a three-team deal that also involved Detroit.Those moves capped a wild seven-day stretch that began with the Knicks’ blockbuster trade of Kristaps Porzingis to Dallas and also included the 76ers’ acquisition of Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers. Philadelphia’s big swing to land Harris, who joined a starting lineup that already featured Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Jimmy Butler and JJ Redick, seemingly forced the Raptors and Bucks, who entered Thursday as the East’s second- and first-place teams, to make their own moves.Milwaukee, Toronto and Philadelphia, along with the Boston Celtics, are jockeying to become the first LeBron James-less team to represent the East in the N.B.A. Finals since 2010.The Sixers, at fifth in the conference standings, didn’t stop at their Harris trade, though. Shortly before the deadline, they made a surprising deal with the Orlando Magic to send the wayward guard Markelle Fultz — whom they selected with the No. 1 overall pick in the 2017 draft — for the small forward Jonathon Simmons and two future draft picks (one in the first round, one in the second).The Celtics, who entered Thursday in third, came away from trade season simply relieved that Davis had not been traded to the Los Angeles Lakers. After a nervy two weeks, during which the Celtics could merely watch because of an obscure league rule, they will now get an opportunity to make a run at Davis in the off-season — although Davis is said to remain adamantly against signing a long-term contract with the Celtics should they trade for him.The Celtics were ineligible to make in-season trade offers for Davis with Kyrie Irving still on their roster, since both Davis and Irving are currently playing under maximum rookie-scale contract extensions; league rules allow teams to field only one such player.The Lakers, however, were unable to persuade the Pelicans to surrender Davis during the exclusive negotiating window they had to pursue him in the wake of Davis’s Jan. 28 request to be traded. The front offices of Los Angeles and New Orleans had no discussions about Davis on deadline day, according to two people familiar with the talks, after negotiations broke down Tuesday over what the Lakers deemed to be exorbitant demands from New Orleans.Late Thursday, Pelicans General Manager Dell Demps confirmed that Davis would continue playing for the team rather than be held out to guard against serious injury in advance of the trade sweepstakes that will likely emerge closer to the draft. Davis had not played since Jan. 18 because of a finger injury followed by the team not wanting to risk an injury. Demps confirmed he would be back on the court soon.“Ultimately, Anthony made it clear to us he wants to play and he gives our team the best opportunity to win games,” Demps said in a statement.The Lakers on Thursday were left trying to recover from the instability wrought by their pursuit of Davis as they seek to make the playoffs in James’s first season in Los Angeles. They entered Thursday’s play at 27-27, good for just 10th place in the West, after falling to a humiliating 42-point defeat in Indiana on Tuesday night. The one-sided loss, against the Victor Oladipo-less Pacers, left little doubt that the mounting trade speculation surrounding the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma was taking a toll on the Lakers.When the Lakers couldn’t acquire Davis on Thursday, they did trade the Croatian center Ivica Zubac — who was among the promising young players mentioned as potential parts of a trade for Davis — along with Michael Beasley to the Los Angeles Clippers in a deal for forward Mike Muscala. The move opened a roster spot for the Lakers that will allow them to seriously consider signing the former All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony, but Los Angeles will have plenty of other options on the free-agent market as various veterans become available following the deadline.As the Davis talk cooled on Thursday, much of the focus leading into the deadline centered on the Grizzlies, who wound up trading Gasol but keeping their point guard Mike Conley, who had drawn serious trade interest from the Utah Jazz and Detroit Pistons.Conley, 31, has two seasons, with a combined salary of $66 million, left on his contract after this one, which convinced the Grizzlies that trading him closer to the draft in June might yield a better offer. Gasol, though, can become a free agent at season’s end, so Memphis had to trade him now or risk losing one of the game’s best two-way players without compensation this summer.Charlotte and Memphis engaged in serious trade talks regarding Gasol earlier this week, which prompted the Spaniard, who has only played for the Grizzlies — and who played his high school ball in Memphis after the Grizzlies imported his brother Pau Gasol from Spain — to clean out his locker.But Toronto, perhaps motivated by what the Sixers did and by the Bucks’ move for Mirotic, packaged Jonas Valanciunas, Delon Wright, C.J. Miles and a second-round draft pick in 2024 to add Gasol to a team straining to convince the All-Star forward Kawhi Leonard to make a long-term commitment when he becomes a free agent July 1.The Bucks, like Toronto, managed to upgrade their roster without surrendering a first-round pick. By expanding a Thon Maker-for-Stanley Johnson trade it had hashed out earlier this week into a three-team deal, Milwaukee landed Mirotic for the primary cost of four second-round draft picks, which were sent to the Pelicans, who also came away with Johnson and the veteran Jason Smith.The Knicks did not make another deal, one week removed from the Porzingis blockbuster that got the trade madness started, but they did set two veterans free to find deals on the postseason market. The outspoken forward Enes Kanter was waived, as was the newly acquired Wes Matthews — with Matthews immediately coming to terms with Indiana to join the Pacers after he clears waivers.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaDENVER — Moments after the Golden State Warriors finished obliterating the Denver Nuggets on Tuesday night, Draymond Green was asked about a teammate who did not even play — a teammate, in fact, who has yet to log a single minute this season but is nearing his much-anticipated debut.“Hopefully,” Green said, “it’s devastating for everybody else.”Let that soak in for a second. The Warriors, who have won three of the last four N.B.A. championships, are already good at basketball. All they did on Tuesday was set an N.B.A. record by scoring 51 points in the first quarter — the first quarter! — against a team that came into the game with the best record in the Western Conference.But now, after signing DeMarcus Cousins over the summer and spending recent months incorporating him into their dynastic fold as he recovered from Achilles’ tendon surgery, the Warriors expect him to be in their starting lineup when they visit the Los Angeles Clippers on Friday night. It is a grand experiment that will play out over the second half of the season.“More than anything, we’re just excited for DeMarcus,” Coach Steve Kerr said late Tuesday night, adding: “It’s going to take him some time to get his rhythm.”Cousins, a 28-year-old center and a four-time All-Star, has not played since Jan. 26, 2018, when he tore his left Achilles’ in a game for the New Orleans Pelicans. At the time, Cousins was having a career season, with averages of 25.2 points, 12.9 rebounds and 5.4 assists a game. He was also due for free agency and an enormous payday.But his type of injury has ended careers, particularly among big men, and every team in the league balked at offering him a long-term deal. He wound up with the Warriors, who signed him to a one-year contract worth $5.3 million — a modest price for a reclamation project with upside and little obvious risk.“It’s a relief,” Cousins told reporters last week. “It’s been a long year for me, a lot of ups and downs, but the finish line is ahead.”There is no way of knowing if Cousins, who is listed at 6-feet-11 and 270 pounds, will ever be the top-tier player he once was. But the Warriors neither need nor expect him to be a focal point of their offense, and if he merely commands attention from defenders, especially in the post, he should free up additional space on the perimeter for the team’s cavalcade of shooters.“We haven’t had a player like him before, so it will be new,” Kerr said. “It won’t be a simple ‘plug him in and he’ll fit right in.’ We’ll play through him some, so there will be a period where we have to adapt. Fortunately, we’re halfway through the year. We have a lot of games to figure this out.”Since the Warriors began collecting championships under Kerr in 2015, they have had a rotating cast of dependable but unspectacular centers: Andrew Bogut, Festus Ezeli, Zaza Pachulia, JaVale McGee. Cousins has never been a role player, though he acknowledged his new (and unfamiliar) place in the Warriors’ ecosystem.“Well,” he said, “I won’t be taking as many shots as I have in the past.”He also has a reputation for being emotional, and something of an antagonist. Some of the Warriors have firsthand experience. Kerr recalled getting ejected after arguing with the officials in a game against the Sacramento Kings in 2017, back when Cousins was playing for them. But before he left the court, Kerr caught Cousins taunting him by waving goodbye.Then there was an episode last season, when Cousins was playing for the Pelicans, and he got into an altercation with Kevin Durant. After both players were ejected, Cousins tried to track down Durant outside the Warriors’ locker room — and not to exchange pleasantries.“It shows that you care,” Cousins said of playing with passion. “It shows that it means something to you. I’m not really fans of the guys who are emotionless on the floor.”Nuggets Coach Mike Malone, who briefly coached Cousins in Sacramento, said he enjoyed the experience.“I loved coaching him,” Malone said. “I think he’s a player that’s misunderstood, and when you have a chance to know him, you realize who he is as a player and as a person. And when he’s healthy, he’s one of the more unstoppable big men in the N.B.A.”Malone compared Cousins to Nikola Jokic, the Nuggets’ fourth-year center and an emerging multidimensional force.“He can score inside, and he can score outside,” Malone said of Cousins. “He can handle the ball, and he can make his teammates better.”Malone said he expected that Cousins would give the Warriors “a big lift,” and Malone made those remarks before the Nuggets’ 142-111 loss to the Warriors.The Warriors have had their struggles this season, although these things tend to be relative. Green beefed with Durant. Stephen Curry missed 11 games with a strained groin. Klay Thompson labored through an early-season shooting slump that he refused to acknowledge as an early-season shooting slump. And they have lost more games than they usually do.The Warriors have been rolling of late, though, winning seven of their last eight before their game against the Pelicans on Wednesday night. They appear to be playing their best basketball of the season, as evidenced by their demolition of the Nuggets, a rout so thorough that Malone said it would be impossible for his team to just “flush” the loss and forget it.But now, as the Warriors get ready to introduce Cousins to their explosive mix, there are questions: Can he play with pace? Can he acclimate himself to a supporting role? Can he defend quicker players if opponents go small against him? And most important, can he stay healthy and find his old form ahead of the playoffs?The Warriors are eager to find out.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Hours after Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Los Angeles Lakers’ president of basketball operations, and mere minutes after LeBron James’s first season as the franchise cornerstone ended with a buzzer-beating loss, James left Staples Center on Tuesday night without speaking to reporters, trailed only by security officers and questions about the team’s future.It was not the season anyone envisioned for the Lakers, who had upended the N.B.A. by signing James last summer with the hype and expectation of returning the franchise to its glory years. One of the most storied teams in the league, the Lakers have not won a championship in nine years, and Los Angeles is frustrated, hungry and impatient.Instead, the team collected nearly as many injuries as losses. James, who will miss the N.B.A. playoffs beginning Saturday for the first time in 14 years, watched the final six games of the season from the bench as the team looked to preserve him for next season. His next buzzy stop is a studio lot as the star of “Space Jam 2,” which he has said is set to begin filming this summer.For the Lakers (37-45), all the drama was off the court, right up to the end, with Johnson’s abrupt announcement so out-of-the-blue that he had not even told his boss, the team owner Jeanie Buss, before wading into a gaggle of reporters.[Here is a look at Magic Johnson’s biggest moments as team president.]On Wednesday morning, Johnson, 59, wrote on Twitter that he considers himself a “Laker for life.”He announced in 1991 that he was H.I.V. positive but said Tuesday that he was in good health and it was not a factor in his decision.Johnson had sealed a $154 million, four-year deal for James — two greats fulfilling their needs: Johnson to restore luster to a glamorous team; James to close out his career as a Laker and develop his business and entertainment interests centered on Hollywood.And now they both left Staples Center with a losing record and a team in chaos.In some ways, it was the perfect finale to a season that trafficked in dysfunction.So there was the coach, Luke Walton, saying what losing coaches always say: essentially, wait until next year. His job may have been saved when Johnson quit, but he would not talk about that.“We have a lot of time to work and get better,” Walton said late Tuesday after the Lakers’ loss to the Portland Trail Blazers. “Let’s organize and prioritize what we need to do so we can give ourselves a better chance next season.”It was a wasted season for everyone involved, and James is as polarizing as ever, even in Los Angeles, where as much as fans banked on him, they also retained a degree of skepticism that this was all real.Jonas Never, a prominent Los Angeles-based street artist, found that out the hard way.“Honestly,” Never said in a telephone interview, “Lakers fans are the trickiest.”Last July, he had talked a restaurant owner in Venice Beach into allowing him to paint a mural of James in a Lakers jersey to commemorate his arrival: 75 cans of spray paint in 12 hours for the “King of L.A.”It did not take long for the mural to be vandalized — not just once, but twice in a span of four days. The first time, it was salvageable. Someone had defaced the wall with the words “We Don’t Want You” and “No King,” along with “3-6,” a reference to James’s losing record in the N.B.A. finals. But Never was able to restore the mural. (“A two-minute fix,” he said.)The second time, someone splashed yellow paint all over James’s face, and Never had no choice but to paint over it.“If it had been a car, it would have been totaled,” he said.To be fair, most fans were excited about James. The news media coverage was breathless. And perhaps no member of the ticket-paying public had invested more in LeBron-to-L.A. than Jacob Emrani, a personal injury lawyer from Beverly Hills, Calif., who had purchased space for 40 James-themed billboards in the run-up to free agency.“I definitely didn’t think it was going to be something where we missed the playoffs or thought, ‘What the hell is happening here?’ ” Emrani said in an interview. “I’m disappointed in the breaks we got, but I’m not necessarily disappointed in LeBron. We were in fourth place when he went down.”Emrani was referring to what may have been the season’s turning point: the Lakers’ ill-fated Christmas Day game against the Golden State Warriors, which James himself cited in a recent interview with Spectrum SportsNet, the Lakers’ broadcast partner. The Lakers were playing solid basketball at the time — in fact, they clobbered the Warriors to improve their record to 20-14 — but James injured his groin in the third quarter and wound up missing the next 17 games. The Lakers went into a tailspin without him.“Disappointed in my body,” James told Spectrum SportsNet, adding: “Because I knew exactly where we were at that point. And we just were never able to get back from that.”Once James returned, the team’s front office unsuccessfully tried to engineer a trade for another big star, the New Orleans Pelicans’ Anthony Davis — this, after James had told ESPN that it would be “amazing” to play alongside Davis.The plan appeared to be to essentially trade away the rest of the team. The fallout was clear: Whatever fragile bonds that remained in the home locker room at Staples Center seemed to fray at the seams.For many fans, it was impossible to dissociate James from the failed trade — James and Davis share an agent, Rich Paul — and much of the mess that followed.“Nearly everyone on the roster was involved in those trade rumors,” Never said. “How can you really feel wanted if you think you’re going to be packing your locker the next day?”As the losses mounted, so did the criticisms of James: that he appeared detached from his teammates, that basketball was secondary to his growing interest in his entertainment company, that his body was finally breaking down after so many years of athletic genius, that he was no longer capable of carrying a team to a title.But in the 55 games that James did play this season, he was pretty good. He averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists a game while shooting 51 percent from the field. Besides, a long summer may benefit him after so many extended playoff runs.“The only thing that was hard was that he got hurt,” Walton said late Tuesday night. “It takes time to build a relationship with somebody. But as our relationship grew and I got to see what it was like coaching him, it was great. And I believe if we could have stayed healthy, we would have had a very successful season. He’s an incredible player.”For his part, James told Spectrum SportsNet that he wanted to use the summer to get his body back to “120 percent” ahead of training camp — even as he moonlights on the set of “Space Jam 2.” He has been adamant that his work in entertainment will not interfere with his work on the basketball court.The question is whether one bad season will become two. So much hinges on the summer as the Lakers look to add another star to their roster. (Emrani said he had plans for more billboards, though he declined to say which top-tier free agents he would target.) James has said that he will be as involved in the team’s recruiting efforts as possible.“I’m looking forward to seeing who jumps in the car with me and wants to take this ride to the top,” James said in his interview with Spectrum SportsNet. “I know what I bring to the game. I know my commitment to the game. I’ve never cheated the game, and throughout my career, it’s always given back to me.”Back in Venice Beach, Never painted a new mural during the middle of the N.F.L. season, replacing LeBron James with Derwin James, a safety for the Los Angeles Chargers. The mural has been up for months, Never said, and no one has touched it.An earlier version of this article misstated when LeBron James injured his groin during a game against the Golden State Warriors on Christmas Day. It was in the third quarter, not the first half.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaNEW ORLEANS — The New Orleans Pelicans have scuffled along for years as one of the N.B.A.’s worker-bee franchises, a respectable team but not one that has vied for championships. They lose as often as they win and play their home games in an arena called the Smoothie King Center, where a big-beaked mascot named Pierre roams the crowd.But in recent seasons, the team has employed someone even more special: Anthony Davis, a gifted center and one of the best players in the league. Davis has a pterodactyl-length wingspan and a unibrow, which has become as much a part of his persona as his skyscraping dunks. Fans know him as “The Brow,” as if he were a superhero who draws strength from his facial hair.New Orleans used to love him for it — until two weeks ago, when he shook the league and asked the Pelicans to trade him. The Pelicans, in return, made a bold move of their own: They refused to let him go, at least not yet.Now Davis and New Orleans are stuck together in basketball purgatory — “It definitely is different,” said Jrue Holiday, the team’s starting point guard — and the city’s long-suffering sports fans can only wonder: What do we do now?“It’s not a new thing that guys demand to be traded,” Alvin Gentry, the Pelicans coach, said in an interview, “but I thought the timing of it kind of put everybody in a tough situation.”It has been a soul-crushing few weeks for sports fans here. They absorbed a major blow last month when the New Orleans Saints, who are as much a tent revival as football team, lost to the Los Angeles Rams in the N.F.L. playoffs after a missed call by the referees, which may have cost the Saints a trip to the Super Bowl.A week later, Davis’s agent, Rich Paul, announced publicly that Davis wanted out of New Orleans and would not sign a contract extension.“Now that he’s going to leave, I’m excited to see what we can get for him,” said Ryan Bergeron, a 22-year-old legal assistant from New Orleans who is a regular at Pelicans games. Like many fans, Bergeron owns one of Davis’s replica jerseys — which he plans to keep in the back of his closet.“I think we’ll be better off without him,” Bergeron said.Not so long ago, Davis was throwing beads from a float as an honorary grand marshal at a Mardi Gras parade. But the city’s feelings toward him have curdled like week-old étouffée.On Friday night, when Davis played in his first home game for the Pelicans since his trade request, images of him were cut from a highlight package that played on the arena’s oversize video screens. The crowd showered him with boos that drowned out scattered cheers. As if to amplify his value while sticking it to those who expressed their displeasure, Davis collected 32 points and 9 rebounds.“It’s life, man,” Davis said of his frosty reception. “Some people aren’t going to like you.”New Orleans has dealt with its share of hardwood hardship. Franchises have come and gone, along with star players. The New Orleans Buccaneers were a charter member of the American Basketball Association from 1967 to 1970, but then relocated to Memphis. The New Orleans Jazz, founded as an N.B.A. expansion franchise in 1974, had a similarly abbreviated run before decamping for Utah in 1979.The N.B.A. returned to New Orleans in 2002 — back when the team was known as the Hornets — and eventually found a franchise star in point guard Chris Paul, who led the team to three playoff appearances before he, too, told management before the start of the 2011-12 season that he would not sign a contract extension. New Orleans traded him to the Los Angeles Clippers, then finished with the worst record in the Western Conference.But from the rubble of player discontent sprang fresh life in 2012: Tom Benson, then the owner of the Saints, bought the franchise, and the team, soon to be rebranded as the Pelicans, secured the top pick in the draft. (After Benson died last year, the ownership of both franchises was transferred to his wife, Gayle.) New Orleans used that pick on Davis, a freshman center who had just led Kentucky to an N.C.A.A. championship.Now in his seventh season, Davis is a six-time All-Star who was averaging 29 points and 13.3 rebounds entering Monday. But he has been prone to injury, and he has never led the Pelicans on a deep playoff run. The organization has made missteps — Exhibit A: re-signing Omer Asik, a Turkish forward, to a $58 million deal in 2015 — but that does not make them unique among N.B.A. teams; they are trying to compete in one of the league’s smallest markets when stars are generally gravitating toward flashier and more well-established franchises.Last season, the Pelicans were playing well behind Davis and DeMarcus Cousins, a perennial All-Star whom the team had acquired through a trade in 2017. But Cousins tore his Achilles’ tendon and missed the playoffs. Without him, the Pelicans still swept the Portland Trail Blazers in their first-round series before losing to the Golden State Warriors in the conference semifinals.Still another problem was brewing for the Pelicans. In September, Davis changed agents and hired Paul, who is known for his close relationship with LeBron James, the Los Angeles Lakers’ star forward.Paul’s tactics with the Pelicans in recent weeks in pursuit of a trade for Davis were unconventional. Tom Penn, a former executive with the Trail Blazers and an analyst for NBA TV, said in a telephone interview that most agents try to work with team executives behind the scenes. Paul, on the other hand, “threw a Molotov cocktail in the middle of the room,” Penn said.It became a public spectacle, and the Pelicans responded by releasing a statement in which they said they would do a deal “on our own terms and our own timeline.” Sure enough, they rebuffed the Lakers — one of Davis’s preferred trade destinations — in their attempts to pry Davis loose.Once Thursday’s trade deadline passed, the Pelicans landed a final jab by tweeting an emoji of an hourglass that had run out.Aside from avoiding the public-relations pitfalls of being stuck with a star who no longer wants to be there, the Pelicans had little incentive to make a deal ahead of the trade deadline. More teams will be better positioned to make offers for Davis in the off-season, and the Pelicans’ haul in exchange for him could be huge.New Orleans also showed some pluck. At a time when some players are seizing greater power to determine the arc of their careers, the Pelicans decided that they would trade Davis when they are ready.Now, with Davis tethered to them for the remainder of the season — he is a lottery ticket they will wait to cash — the Pelicans are searching for a way forward.“What we’re trying to do is get back to normal,” said Gentry, the team’s coach, “and what our new normal is — we haven’t quite figured it out yet.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinLOS ANGELES — There was a moment during the Golden State Warriors’ morning walk-through on Friday that Shaun Livingston, even after his 14 seen-it-all seasons in the N.B.A., felt a need to pause in admiration of what was happening.So Livingston stared out onto the floor at Staples Center and tried to process that DeMarcus Cousins had indeed joined the starry quartet of Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green to run through some defensive instructions — as a unit.“I’m not going to lie,” Livingston said. “I saw the five of them together and for a second, I was like: ‘Wow. That’s a fantasy squad.’ ”The rest of the Warriors would go on to enjoy their own fantasy-becomes-reality moment Friday night. Finally making his debut with the two-time reigning champions, after nearly a year in injury exile, Cousins frankly looked as joyful as we’ve ever seen him in an N.B.A. game, logging four effective stints for a total of 15 minutes 3 seconds in a 112-94 road rout of the Los Angeles Clippers.There were a few awkward drives to the rim, more than a few of his familiar grumbles to the referees and six fouls in those 15 minutes, but Cousins also racked up an impressive 14 points, 6 rebounds and 3 assists. Despite Cousins’s rust and apparent lack of conditioning, Golden State outscored the Clippers by 21 points in his time on the floor before he fouled out.“This is his night,” Curry said afterward.It certainly was. The 6-foot 11-inch Cousins hammered home a vicious dunk for his first basket as a Warrior, ran the floor with aplomb, hounded the various Clippers he guarded one on one into 0-for-7 shooting, found a cutting Curry for a layup with a nifty bounce pass out of the post, took a charge against a driving Tobias Harris and, most notably, drained three 3-pointers.Two of those 3’s, early in the fourth quarter, “really broke the whole game open,” Warriors Coach Steve Kerr said.Most of all, Cousins smiled. He smiled and laughed a lot. He soaked in a celebratory water-dousing on live TV from Curry and Thompson, proudly awarded the game ball to his mother, Monique, and came away from his first real game action in 355 days by proclaiming it “probably one of the best days of my life.”“Like a kid on Christmas,” Cousins said.And that might be the most ominous aspect of Cousins’s long-anticipated bow with the juggernaut he joined on a bargain deal via free agency last summer. That one-year-deal, worth just $5.3 million, came amid leaguewide concern about how Cousins would respond to a torn Achilles’ tendon in his left foot, historically one of the sport’s most devastating injuries. The resultant skepticism wiped out most of his free-agent market.Yet Cousins, just one game into the Warriors experiment, already looks content and comfortable with this group.If that continues?“Things should only get better from here,” Curry said.Said Kerr of Cousins’s teammates: “They all love him. He’s a really good teammate. He’s an emotional guy, but he’s loved.”Even with a playful nickname like Boogie, there have been few happy occasions in the pros for Cousins, who has played more N.B.A. games (536) than any other active player without a taste of the postseason and had been sidelined since he shredded his Achilles’ as a member of the New Orleans Pelicans on Jan. 26, 2018.But his desire to find a productive role with the franchise that has won three titles over the past four seasons was very clear on Friday night. Playing in short bursts to start every quarter, Cousins, 28, still found the time to flash every facet of the versatile skill set that, when it neutralizes the emotional side that Kerr referenced, has long made him one of the league’s most tantalizing talents.“He’s going to help them,” Clippers Coach Doc Rivers said forlornly. “He does so many things.”In the 46th game of what Curry himself described as a “very dramatic” season for the Warriors, Cousins’s return also helped Golden State shed some of the aftertaste from its last visit here to play the Clippers — when a nasty argument on the bench between Durant and Green led to Green’s one-game suspension without pay and considerable tension afterward.Those scenes seemed particularly dated on Friday even as Curry cast a wary eye on all the gushing sure to emerge in coming days about how mighty Golden State now looks with all five of its reigning All-Stars in uniform.“We’re not going to drink all the Kool-Aid,” Curry promised, insisting that the integration of Cousins remains “a work in progress.’’Still, no N.B.A. team has been able to trot out a lineup featuring five All-Stars from the previous season since the 1975-76 Boston Celtics. Well aware of such history, Kerr tried before tipoff to convince his players to tune out the external noise.“There’s going to be instant judgment, analysis and criticism,” Kerr said after the morning shootaround. “We’re either going to be, at the end of the night, unbeatable or in big trouble.”Asked after Friday’s emphatic triumph if it was thus safe to proclaim his team unbeatable, Kerr joked: “Yes. Please go ahead. Season’s over.”While things aren’t quite that hopeless for the league’s other 29 teams, it sure seems as though a new season just started for the Warriors, who are back atop the Western Conference despite a 32-14 record that isn’t as gaudy as usual. The Clippers might have been short-handed without the injured Lou Williams and with a hobbled Danilo Gallinari, but the Warriors’ ability to slot Cousins in among their marquee foursome or mix him in with trusted reserves such as Livingston and Andre Iguodala quickly made them look as dangerous as they ever have during their championship run.Noting that he wasn’t being double-teamed no matter what the lineups on the floor were, Cousins called it “a first” in his career.“I can get used to this,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellWEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — I walked into the spring training locker room of the Houston Astros with a question for the assembled players. What is going on with the slow pace of free-agent contracts this winter?Alex Bregman, the Astros’ star third baseman, had just finished taking his morning hacks on the field and is likely to be a future occupant of baseball’s penthouse. He could earn a munificent contract of the sort handed out to Bryce Harper ($330 million) and Manny Machado ($300 million) these past two weeks. But he sees many dozens of ballplayers who have fallen short of stardom without contracts, and that angers him.Worse, he sees teams content with mediocrity: Fewer clubs are competing to sign the stars. “A lot of teams seem fine with losing and getting TV money and making no attempt to sign players,” he said. “That is bad for the game.”I wandered over to Josh Reddick’s locker. Lithe and a free spirit, he’s a good right fielder and a careful observer of the game. He suggested that perhaps baseball players should follow the lead of N.B.A. players and speak out.“A lot of guys are pissed off,” he said. “There are a lot of guys who should have jobs who are just hanging there. If it takes another bad strike to change this, then that’s what we need to do.”We have arrived at a hinge point in sports. From angry baseball players talking strike to quarterback Colin Kaepernick to running back Le’Veon Bell to the N.B.A. players LeBron James, Stephen Curry and Chris Paul, professional athletes are splendidly outspoken. They opine on President Trump and popular culture and their sport’s economics, and it is indisputably stirring to see young men and women looking beyond the horizon of wins and losses.Yet politicization plays out in radically different ways and not invariably to the benefit of athletes. Baseball grooves on and is constrained by its traditions. It has a powerful union, the strongest in pro sports, and that coexists with the sense that individuality is suspect and no player is as big as the sport itself.So baseball players sail toward a possible confrontation with the owners without leaders who possess the transcendent cultural cachet and business power of, say, a LeBron James.“It feels like baseball lives in the past, and that undercuts player power,” noted Adrian Burgos, a history professor at the University of Illinois and editor of La Vida Baseball, which studies the Latino influence on baseball. “Whereas the N.B.A. imagines itself as the future, and it has to create a world in which players have more power.”The N.B.A., players in many sports will tell you, stands as the zeitgeist prototype, the most free-spirited of the leagues and with the youngest fan base — the average age of an N.B.A. viewer is 37, compared with 55 in baseball. Its stars have become hybrids: players, power brokers and globe-spanning businessmen. So James, who signed with the Los Angeles Lakers with an eye toward building an entertainment empire, spent much of February trying to force the New Orleans Pelicans to trade its star center, Anthony Davis, to the Lakers.James’s heist failed amid complaints he had stepped out of his player’s lane and tampered with another team’s star. Suffice to say James did not appear chastened and Davis could try to force a trade this summer. James has a television show, “The Shop,” on HBO, and guess who was one of his scheduled guests on the Season 2 premiere on Friday night?Yes, the same A. Davis.The N.B.A. life is nothing if not an intersectional experience.Baseball and football are more tightly bound by their cultures and history. The N.F.L. long ago went all in on Death Star dominance, sated on money and nose wrinkled in distaste for dissent. The owners cut a presumably very large check to Kaepernick, who almost certainly was blackballed for taking a dignified knee during the national anthem. There is no assurance he will again run out onto an N.F.L. field.Player solidarity in football is a barely flickering lamp. When Bell refused to report to the Steelers’ training camp last fall, The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported that teammates removed his name plate and plundered his locker of shoes. Bell decided to sit out the 2018 season rather than accept a constraining franchise-tag deal.“The N.F.L. has capitalized in post-9/11 patriotism and the sense that its shield is bigger than players, and that infects the sport,” David Leonard, a professor who teaches about the intersection of race, culture and sport at Washington State, Pullman, said.The N.B.A. is the antithesis of this. Player and even coaching personas — see Steve Kerr and Gregg Popovich’s scathing takes on Trump — have become central to its marketing appeal, a Twitter, WhatsApp, Instagrammed world of hooping and opining. Adam Silver, the commissioner of the N.B.A., may not groove on athletes’ desire to bend teams to their will, but that is woven into the league’s DNA.Bill Russell, the 85-year-old basketball legend who took a photo of himself wearing a T-shirt with the words, “I’m with Kap,” and tweeted it out, serves as a reminder, too, that its athletes have been outspoken for generations.“N.B.A. players are taking a role in their own marketing and their own futures,” Leonard said. “You see a concerted effort not only to wield power but to create power.”This has not escaped the notice of baseball players. In their world, too much individuality, wearing a hat backward or tossing a bat like a baton after a home run, can draw a roll of eyes.Reddick, the Astros’ right fielder, has watched N.B.A. players with admiration. “Basketball players are very outspoken about their opinions,” he said. “Baseball has always been about giving the generic cliché answer that keeps you guessing. Basketball players are much more outspoken and go into it with a lot of depth.”Analytics border on Holy Writ in baseball front offices and for many sportswriters, and this too acts to strangely diminish stars even in their moment of glory. So we’re told that Harper, an intense and seemingly transcendent young star, is less than he appears because his WAR rating last year (wins above replacement and a rather subjective statistic) was low. There is the implicit suggestion that players and fans would do well to yield to numeracy triumphalism.That insistence acts as oil poured on the bonfire of player discontent. Stars to the side, more than 70 major leaguers remain without contracts, and rank-and-file sorts have signed minor league contracts in hopes they might clamber onto a major league roster with a good spring. The players note — how to say this sweetly? — the coincidence that team computer programs seem to kick out contract offers that occupy the same narrow bandwidth.In the 1980s, such coincidence went by the name of collusion; today, it’s apparently just artificial intelligence doing what it does.Zack Britton, a fine relief pitcher, signed a three-year, $39 million contract this winter with the Yankees, and counted himself lucky. “These clubs are all controlled by Major League Baseball,” he said. “And they are submitting almost the same offers, which is kind of weird, right?”Reddick has walked this modern baseball world. He played four years for the Oakland Athletics and loved his manager and the bleacher bums with whom he partied and the Bay Area. When he reached free agency and wanted his compensation, well: Hasta la vista, baby.The Athletics pull off this tightwad act with exceedingly bright management, but it is an exception.“Unless you’re a die-hard fan and you’ve got a date or you just want to get hammered on $9 beers, it’s hard to see why you’d keep going to the games of some teams,” Reddick said. “It’s a bummer because you are supposed to want to win games.”The union-management agreement expires in two years. In this age of the outspoken athlete, the center may no longer hold. “In 2021,” Reddick predicted, “a lot of stuff could hit the fan.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballThe N.B.A. had its reasons for forcing New Orleans to play its superstar after a trade request, but the risk is not worth the reward.By Marc SteinCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Some of the most memorable scenes from the N.B.A.’s 68th All-Star Game played out away from the ball, both on and adjacent to the bench of the squad captained by LeBron James.Two very deep 3-pointers from Damian Lillard sparked a comeback from 20 points down that had some of the game’s biggest names bounding farther onto the floor in the celebration than the rules would ever allow in a game that counts. And in that same corner of Spectrum Center, another spectacle percolated: Anthony Davis, the disgruntled New Orleans Pelicans superstar, spending the entire second half as a rather forlorn spectator.Those close enough to see it simply couldn’t miss the contrast.Davis tested his freshly tweaked left shoulder in warm-ups, registered 5 points in five minutes and then opted for safety — and what passed for solitude — while a raucous rally unfolded around him. Led by Lillard and the All-Star M.V.P. Kevin Durant, Team LeBron climbed out of that huge hole to record a 178-164 victory over the team captained by Giannis Antetokounmpo. Yet it was a muted end to the league’s annual party weekend for the player whose future has generated more noise than anyone or anything in basketball since September. That’s when Davis hired the Klutch Sports agent Rich Paul — who is also James’s agent and one of the superstar’s closest friends — to precipitate a seemingly ceaseless stream of chatter about Davis winding up alongside James on the Los Angeles Lakers. That might still happen. Even though the league’s annual trade deadline has passed — and even with Davis revealing in a wild interview session Saturday that he is more open to being dealt to the Boston Celtics than had been previously described — no one is prepared to suggest that the Lakers are out of this trade chase.The firmest and smartest declaration to be made at this juncture is that Davis’s reverse layup and swished 3-pointer from the left wing Sunday night should be the last two shots he takes for the rest of the season. It is time for the Pelicans, league officials and Davis’s camp to collectively decide that the wisest move for all parties is to shelve The Brow for New Orleans’ 23 remaining games.Davis has every right, like countless All-Stars before him, to request a trade. The sport’s best have anointed James their muscle-flexing role model and are taking greater control of their futures than ever before. Why shouldn’t they if they have the juice?Once that happens, though, Davis’s team should be able to protect the franchise’s interests above anything else. New Orleans has not been granted that right.It emerged Jan. 28 that Davis, through Paul, informed the Pelicans that he would not be signing the five-year, $240 million contract extension they were planning to offer July 1, and that he wanted to be traded instead. New Orleans spent the ensuing 10 days before the trade deadline fielding offers for Davis — mostly from the overzealous Lakers — but did so knowing all along that the pool of worthy offers would be wider if they waited until June.When the deadline predictably passed on Feb. 7 with no deal, New Orleans was ordered by the N.B.A. to play Davis for the rest of the season — even though a precedent had already been set to give the team full control in similar cases involving Houston’s Carmelo Anthony and Memphis’ Chandler Parsons. Davis has played in four games since, routinely taking the proverbial air out of the Pelicans when he’s been on the court and, in his most recent appearance, injuring his shoulder.The Pelicans don’t want Davis in the lineup because of the gloom his ongoing presence spawns, but also to try to avoid a serious injury that could adversely affect his trade value. The N.B.A.’s position is that they differentiate between true game-changers like Davis and mortal players. It is my position that they absolutely should not.Two of the league’s main justifications in this case, after all, hold that the Pelicans would be willfully hurting the ticket-buying public by holding Davis out — and that the potential benefit New Orleans could realize in terms of improving its draft lottery odds in May violates “league rules governing competitive integrity.” Both ring increasingly hollow.The toxic atmosphere at New Orleans home games — where some customers were spotted last week wearing paper bags over their heads in a scene straight out of the depressing New Orleans ’Aints days of yesteryear — is suddenly such that playing Davis is also an affront to Pelicans fans. They know their face of the franchise no longer wants to be there.Rival teams, meanwhile, can whine all they want about the Pelicans supposedly trying to improve their draft pick in June by sitting Davis now. The truth is any team in New Orleans’ position, resigned to trading Davis and getting as much as possible in return, would want to put him in bubble wrap as quickly as possible.Davis made it clear Sunday night after his quiet cameo that he still wants to play out the season. As much as N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver wants the same, Silver conceded in an interview Sunday with ESPN Radio that the awkward dance resulting from Davis’s trade demand had indeed “become a distraction.”“It’s a very unhealthy situation for the team and, frankly, for Anthony as well,” Silver said.Call that the polite description. The TNT analysts Charles Barkley and Shaquille O’Neal, both of whom navigated their own complicated trade sagas as players, were openly critical of Davis and Paul throughout their All-Star duty.“I think they probably should have done it this summer and done it a little bit more quietly,” O’Neal said in an off-set interview. “Because now Anthony Davis is in a bad position. As a player, you never want the fans to think you don’t care.”Even after Davis hired Paul, I expected a scenario closer to what Shaq outlined. I thought Davis would play the season out to his fullest, inform the Pelicans he would pass on the extension and thus force them to trade him without ever explicitly requesting a trade. That approach seemingly would have meshed better with Davis’s reserved personality. The path he chose instead has made the previously beloved Davis an unlikely villain. That, too, shall pass with time. Paul George, Jimmy Butler and Kawhi Leonard are fellow elite talents who have found themselves labeled similarly over the past 18 months. After Davis is ultimately traded in July, it will eventually be someone else who becomes the N.B.A.’s villain.But July is a ways off. Although there’s no way to gain real distance from the Davis distraction until a trade materializes, Pelicans officials believe it can be tangibly diminished by sending him away for the rest of the season — especially with two of New Orleans’ first four games after the All-Star break coming against LeBron’s Lakers.There were strong signals in Charlotte that the Pelicans — with Danny Ferry now serving as their acting general manager in the wake of Friday’s firing of Dell Demps — intend to re-engage the N.B.A. this week in hopes of convincing league officials to rethink their stance about forcing them to play Davis.The N.B.A. Players Association would presumably get involved if New Orleans is successful, but I’d advise the Pelicans to hold firm. Take any fine that comes. The team has played better, scrappier ball without Davis anyway — and heaven forbid he suffers a serious injury in the regular season’s dog days. As opposed to a mere “dumpster fire,” to borrow New Orleans Coach Alvin Gentry’s term, that would leave both Davis and the Pelicans far worse off than forlorn. That would be the sports version of catastrophic.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy David Waldstein and Kelly WhitesideAnother wretched Knicks season has ended, but from its ashes a justifiable optimism is taking root. The Knicks have the money to add two star players this summer, and there is a growing buzz in the N.B.A. that they could acquire Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors and Kyrie Irving of the Boston Celtics, who can be free agents.With one of the top picks in the N.B.A. draft, optimism turns to giddiness. Could next season’s Knicks feature not only Durant and Irving but also Zion Williamson, Duke’s freshman sensation? Or will the Knicks trade their lottery pick for a standout like Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans?Such big names potentially brighten their future, but there’s another name that could make a difference: James L. Dolan.And so it must be asked: Will Dolan, the unpredictable and imperious owner of the team, find a way to mess it all up?Based on his two-decade history as owner, there is reason to wonder. For the second time in five years, the Knicks won only 17 games, a franchise low. This was also the sixth consecutive year the Knicks failed to make the playoffs, and the 12th time in the last 15 years. It’s a staggering level of impotence for a team that spends as much money as it does and has all the inherent advantages of playing in New York City at Madison Square Garden.That enduring failure, combined with Dolan’s public mistreatment of some fans, has led to a growing anger and skepticism in a disaffected, if dedicated, fan base.Watching the team spin its wheels seems part of the appeal or burden: The Knicks have committed more than $800 million in payroll over the last decade — not to mention millions more spent on a revolving door of high-profile executives — and they spend over the league salary cap each year as a matter of course. They also have averaged no fewer than 19,000 fans a game, no matter how bad they were.There are always appealing visiting teams to watch, and some seasons have started strong only to fizzle. But with such a crucial summer on the horizon, the thinking among fans and Knicks observers goes, perhaps not even Dolan can mess up this opportunity to forge a proven winner.“I wish he had a longer fuse when it comes to the fans,” said David Stern, the commissioner of the N.B.A. from 1984 to 2014. “There are some overreactions, but it will have nothing to do with free agency or how the team is run. That all falls on Steve Mills and Scott Perry. Him having a short fuse at times will have zero bearing on player signings.”Mills, the team president, has worked with Dolan on and off over the last two decades, and Perry is the general manager. They are the latest group that Dolan has entrusted to run the basketball side of the organization. (Others have included Isiah Thomas, Larry Brown, Donnie Walsh, Mike D’Antoni and Phil Jackson — all highly compensated and most of them successful elsewhere but unable to succeed under Dolan.)Dolan may be seen as the odious, impulsive and vengeful tyrant of the Garden, but Stern said Dolan desperately wanted a championship squad.“Jim has been on a crusade to get the best basketball people around him,” Stern said. “That’s what he thought he had with Phil and Isiah and Donnie, and what he thinks he has now with Steve and Scott.”But even with some of those well-respected men, Dolan was known to interfere in basketball decisions, particularly Walsh’s. Dolan has vowed to cease the meddling, and Mills says he has kept his word.“I keep him informed, but he does not get involved in what we do,” Mills said in a telephone interview last week.Dolan, however, did dictate to Mills which news outlets could be involved in some of Mills’s own news conferences. On two occasions this season, The Daily News, which Dolan and Madison Square Garden accused of being biased against them, was not invited, meaning Mills did not have total authority over everything to do with the Knicks.“Jim has strong opinions about the media,” Mills said, “and how he has been covered by the media and how we’ve been covered by the media. Really, my focus and what I have complete control over, how we build this basketball team — that’s what I lock into.”Dolan declined to be interviewed for this article.Several other executives who have worked closely with Dolan over the years but did not want to be named in order to speak candidly described a complex man layered with contradictory impulses and character traits.He can be irrational but also is fiercely loyal to certain people. He can be socially awkward and quite charitable but also unleash a volcanic temper on employees.He is said to worship his father, Charles, 92, the founder of Cablevision. But while Charles Dolan would carry lists of employees’ names in his pocket to help greet them and ask them about their lives, James Dolan is just as likely to walk past employees with barely a hello, associates said, and berate others in meetings. Many employees at the Garden simply try to keep their distance.Seth Abraham was the chief executive of Madison Square Garden for almost five years, until 2004, when Dolan was directly in charge of the Knicks, the Rangers and the Liberty. The two worked together closely.“He’s got the right mind-set,” Abraham said. “The issue is that he’s a zealot and his passion sometimes overwhelms him and the people who work for him. His passion is hot.”Certainly, some fans and charities have benefited from his generosity, while others have felt the sting of his wrath.Most notably, Dolan had security guards wrestle Charles Oakley, a former Knick and fan favorite, out of the building in 2017, an unpleasant scene that unfolded in front of thousands. And last month he had guards detain and then bar another fan from the building who had called out to him, “Sell the team!”Although Dolan may eventually sell the Knicks and the Rangers (he sold the Liberty), few think he will do so any time soon, especially when the fortunes of the team could be close to changing significantly. The Knicks are valued at $4 billion, the highest in the league, according to Forbes magazine.“Fans probably don’t like him because of the team’s record and because he didn’t engage much with them,” said Enes Kanter, the center who played parts of two seasons with the Knicks until he was released in February and is now on the Portland Trail Blazers, who are in the playoffs. “But if they knew him more directly they would probably like him more.”Kanter said the fans had the right to feel the way they did because New York City is a great city, but its basketball team has struggled historically. “They deserve a good team,” he added.They have not had one — a real good one — in 20 years, and the anger mounts. In fact, fear of a growing dissatisfaction among fans led to the Garden quietly limiting the amount of beer and alcohol that could be purchased at games late this season, perhaps a prudent decision considering the level of frustration in a fan base with little to cheer.Prudent decisions have not always been the norm with the Knicks. This is the organization that Stern once said was “not a model of intelligent management.” That comment came a dozen years ago, toward the end of an ugly time in the history of the organization, when a former Garden executive, Anucha Browne Sanders, sued the Knicks and Thomas for sexual harassment, and won in court.There is also a perception among fans and people in the league that prospective players want no part of the bungling Knicks because the team is mismanaged to a point where winning is nearly impossible. In 2015, the Knicks made offers to LaMarcus Aldridge, Greg Monroe and DeAndre Jordan, who was coming off two very productive seasons at the time, and all three signed elsewhere. The next year, the Knicks could not even get a meeting with Durant.Now the hope is that Durant has changed his mind, perhaps convinced that he and Irving or another top free agent could be the ones to lead the Knicks to their first title since 1973. But with the Dolan wild card, hungry Knicks fans cannot be sure.“He has cultivated an environment where N.B.A. guys don’t want to play there,” said Gary Horn, 57, a lifelong Knicks fan and screenwriter who grew up in New York and now lives in California. “But his grand flaw is that he has deputized people who don’t know how to draft young players.”A few years ago at the Chicago predraft camp, Mills said, players and their agents told him that they did not want to join the Knicks but said the reason was more about the Knicks’ strategy under the former executive Phil Jackson.“It was the organization, style of play, however you want to talk about it,” Mills said.Mills added that he and Perry were working hard to change the perception of the Knicks and that David Fizdale, the coach, was a draw for both players and fans by dint of his magnetic personality.Some fans are ready to believe the circumstances have aligned for a superteam.“If Durant thinks playing for the Knicks is what’s best for his business and branding goals,” Jonathan Macri, a fan and founder of the Knicks Film School, a website dedicated to the team, said, “Dolan’s reputation as an unpleasant, impulsive individual isn’t going to change that.”Kevin Draper contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinWith all of the trade drama surrounding Anthony Davis and Kristaps Porzingis, the N.B.A. intruded on the N.F.L.’s run-up to the Super Bowl as we have not seen since Kobe Bryant scored 81 points on football’s so-called Championship Sunday in 2006.Now that the Super Bowl is over and even more of North America’s sporting consciousness is there to be seized by professional basketball’s tireless headline-makers, here is our best advice: Buckle up.What follows is a by-the-numbers look at what the N.B.A.’s 73rd season has served up so far — and what the next five months hold.Through Sunday’s games, only the Milwaukee Bucks were on a 60-win pace. The Bucks’ Eastern Conference-leading record of 38-13 projects to a 61-win campaign — which could keep this season from being the league’s first since 2000-1 without a 60-win club.There are realistically 11 teams battling for the Western Conference’s eight playoff spots, after the new calendar year began with 14 teams in the conference — all but Phoenix — in the race. Dallas, New Orleans and Memphis have dropped off in January, prompting all three teams to focus more on trades than the standings.The consensus top three in the Most Valuable Player Award race coming out of Super Bowl weekend are Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo, Houston’s James Harden and Denver’s Nikola Jokic. According to the Basketball-Reference.com M.V.P. Award Tracker, Antetokounmpo awoke Sunday with a 37.8 percent chance of winning — far ahead of Harden’s 21.1 percent.Harden has scored at least 30 points in 26 consecutive games, good for the third-longest such streak in N.B.A. annals behind Wilt Chamberlain’s streaks of 65 and 31.The league’s trade deadline (Thursday at 3 p.m. Eastern) is three days away. This is the second season since 1978-79 (as far back as reliable N.B.A. record-keeping goes) that the deadline falls before the All-Star Game.The New Orleans Pelicans have made two trips to the playoffs — winning only one series — in Davis’s first six seasons with the team. Davis requested a trade on Jan. 28.It took 54 days for the Minnesota Timberwolves to find a trade they liked for Jimmy Butler after Butler’s request to be dealt became public Sept. 18. Butler was snubbed by East coaches in All-Star voting, but the potential ceiling for Philadelphia’s rugged new star threesome was evident Thursday night at Golden State, when Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Butler and Company brought a halt to the longest winning streak of the season — after the Warriors had won 11 in a row.Minnesota is 21-18 since the trade that sent Butler and Justin Patton to Philadelphia on Nov. 12 — and 6-6 since firing Tom Thibodeau, the coach/team president who made it, on Jan. 6. Ryan Saunders, Thibodeau’s 32-year-old replacement, has many admirers around the league, but the Wolves are a long way from convincing skeptics that the deal (to bring in Robert Covington, Dario Saric, Jerryd Bayless and a 2022 second-round pick) was sufficient for a player of Butler’s caliber.Thibodeau is one of three coaches to be fired this season — after nine coaching changes in the off-season. The other coaches to lose their jobs since opening night: Cleveland’s Tyronn Lue and Chicago’s Fred Hoiberg.There were 20 teams, entering Sunday’s play, attempting at least 30 3-pointers a game. This is poised to become the first season in N.B.A. history that the leaguewide average per game (31.4) will finish in the 30s.With coaches calling for more 3-pointers than ever before and greenlighting shots earlier and earlier in the 24-second shot clock — along with a new rule that resets the shot clock at 14 seconds on offensive rebounds — teams are averaging 100.0 possessions per 48 minutes leaguewide. The last N.B.A. season in which that figure finished in triple digits was 1988-89 (100.6).Milwaukee’s Khris Middleton, Orlando’s Nikola Vucevic, Philadelphia’s Simmons and Denver’s Jokic will make their All-Star Game debuts Feb. 17 in Charlotte, N.C. The All-Star player draft, in which the captains LeBron James and Antetokounmpo will fill out 13-man rosters by picking players playground-style, is Thursday at 7 p.m. — just four hours after the trade deadline passes. (D’Angelo Russell of the Nets, who was named later as a replacement for Indiana’s Victor Oladipo, who is injured, will also be making his All-Star debut this year.)Four teams are in contention for the league’s worst record: Phoenix (11-43), Cleveland (11-42), Chicago (12-41) and, of course, the Knicks (10-42). The teams that finish in the bottom three will share a 14 percent chance of landing the No. 1 overall pick in the draft in June in the first year of the league’s revised lottery system.San Antonio sits a surprising fifth in the West, at 32-22, in its first season since trading Kawhi Leonard to Toronto in July. The Spurs are bidding for a record 22nd consecutive playoff berth, a streak that began in Gregg Popovich’s first full season as Spurs coach in 1997-98.At 27-25, Sacramento is on course to post its first winning record since the 2005-6 season. But the Kings will have to leapfrog at least two teams to stop the league’s longest playoff drought (12 seasons). The Suns (nine seasons) and the Orlando Magic (seven) are on course to extend their own playoff droughts.The Lakers’ playoff drought will hit a hard-to-believe six seasons in a row if James cannot save Los Angeles over its final 29 games. James just missed 17 consecutive games with a strained groin — the longest injury absence of his pro career — and is at risk for missing the postseason for the first time since his second N.B.A. season, in 2004-5.Carmelo Anthony finally became an unrestricted free agent on Sunday after clearing waivers nearly three months after the Houston Rockets sent him away in November after just 10 games together. The Rockets traded Anthony to Chicago on Jan. 21; the Bulls, who needed a roster spot, waived him Friday without him spending a single second with the team.In the seven games Golden State has deployed a lineup of DeMarcus Cousins, Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green, that group is averaging 127.1 points per 100 possessions in 54 minutes. Call it a small but ominous sample size.Oddsmakers in Las Vegas have the Warriors as overwhelming favorites to win their third consecutive championship and fourth in five seasons. According to ActionNetwork.com, Golden State is -225 to win it all, meaning that you would have to bet $225 to win $100. Boston, Milwaukee and Toronto are next in line at +1,000, meaning that a $100 bet would win $1,000 if any of those teams won the title.One scribe’s ranking of the top 10 players who could be unrestricted free agents July 1: Durant, Leonard, Kyrie Irving, Thompson, Butler, Kemba Walker, Cousins, Middleton, Marc Gasol and Tobias Harris.The N.B.A. playoffs start April 13.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Consider the following scenes from the N.B.A.’s annual bacchanal/business convention known as All-Star weekend:Spike Lee standing on a street corner waiting for the crosswalk signal. Stan Kroenke, whose family owns the Denver Nuggets, holding court in a hotel lobby. Joel Embiid, the star center of the Philadelphia 76ers, making small talk with the governor of North Carolina. An army of personal stylists waiting to be summoned by their clients for some of the flashiest events of the year.And then there were the agents and league officials and sneakerheads and reporters, some of whom traveled great distances to make unconventional requests of the weekend’s main attractions.“Shout out to my fans in Mongolia!” John Collins of the Atlanta Hawks yelled into a camera the morning before his appearance in the Saturday slam dunk contest.[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]All-Star weekend tends to be a blend of basketball and branding, business and pleasure — a showcase for a powerful league whose global influence continues to expand.“The whole weekend,” Mike Conley of the Memphis Grizzlies said, “is just a big party.”The All-Star Game itself, scheduled for Sunday night, felt secondary to just about everything else in the host city, as it has for many years. Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets, recalled waiting in line in 2006 for one of the more popular parties at All-Star weekend in Houston, where he watched Maciej Lampe — a center from Poland who appeared in 64 career games over parts of three seasons — bypass the line so that he could immediately be waved inside by security.“And I’m like, ‘Man, I’m behind Maciej Lampe?’” said Morey, who would officially join the front office of the Rockets a little more than six weeks later.All-Star weekend has only grown in recent years. One spreadsheet making the rounds in Charlotte listed more than 100 parties, and that did not include many of the more exclusive events. (Michael Jordan hosted a big one.) Thanks to a change in the league schedule, there is more partying and less deal-making than there used to be.Last year, the league moved the trade deadline up so that it preceded All-Star weekend. In the past, the deadline came a few days after the game, a sequence which helped create its share of absurdity. One of the more notorious examples came in 2017, when word leaked during the fourth quarter of the All-Star Game that the New Orleans Pelicans had struck a deal to acquire DeMarcus Cousins from the Sacramento Kings. Cousins learned of the trade during postgame interviews.The weekend vibe is different now.“It’s so much more fun,” one prominent agent said at a party that he hosted.In the corner, a disc jockey who appeared to be in his 60s spun tunes in a Hawaiian shirt and red-tinted glasses, while women wearing bright red dresses passed out hors d’oeuvres. Agents, clients and marketing honchos milled about the room.But none of this is meant to suggest that deals do not get done.On Thursday night, at a downtown hotel bar where patrons sipped $25 cocktails, a crowd of very tall men gathered as a private event wound down at a nearby steakhouse. Among the luminaries who emerged from the event: Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner; Kroenke, who also owns the Los Angeles Rams; Brian Rolapp, the N.F.L.’s chief media and business officer; Bill Simmons, the founder of The Ringer; Connor Schell, ESPN’s executive vice president for content; and Bob Myers, the general manager of the Golden State Warriors.“There are definitely conversations happening,” Morey said. “And there’s serendipity involved. You’re always bumping into people.”Morey was finishing lunch at an upscale restaurant. Warren LeGarie, a longtime agent to many coaches and executives, and Kiki Vandeweghe, the league’s executive vice president for basketball operations, were dining at nearby tables. Morey was about to head into a meeting with Vandeweghe and Monty McCutchen, who supervises the league’s referees.“Obviously, we care deeply about where the league is going,” Morey said, “so talking to Adam Silver about strategy or Monty McCutchen about changing how they might call certain things — all that kind of stuff could impact our franchise moving forward, so I try to be involved.”The atmosphere may seem more relaxed than it was two years ago, when most team executives and agents were focused on the trade deadline, but the shift in the schedule has not pushed aside the league’s most pressing issues.In Charlotte, a cloud loomed over the festivities, and it came in the shape of a unibrow.Perhaps you have heard? Anthony Davis, the star center for the Pelicans, requested a trade 10 days before the deadline.The Pelicans, though, rejected all trade offers for him and instead hope to reap better players and draft picks in a deal this summer. Last week, Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry called the drama of it all a “dumpster fire.” On Friday, the Pelicans fired their general manager. On Saturday, Davis told reporters that his list of preferred destinations included the Knicks and the Los Angeles Lakers. Hours later, Silver said he would like trade demands and discussions to remain behind closed doors.In any case, the Davis situation only underscored how much the topic of player movement dominates the league — even in the middle of the season, and even after the trade deadline. Everyone here was fixated on what could happen just over four months from now — at the start of free agency.Will Kevin Durant leave the Warriors? Will Kawhi Leonard spurn the Toronto Raptors? Will Kyrie Irving bolt from the Boston Celtics? And, again, what about Davis?“No one likes to see an instance,” Silver said, “where a player is demanding that he be traded when he’s still in the middle of a contractual obligation to a team.”Silver made those remarks, and his wish for private trade discussions, at a news conference before Saturday night’s skills, dunk and 3-point competitions.The media forum, like the carefully coordinated outfits stars wore to events around town, has become part of the event’s routine. So has the roll call of courtside A-listers during the dunk contest; this year’s included the rappers Quavo, 2 Chainz, J. Cole and Gucci Mane.All-Star weekend was not always so structured — or extravagant. Paul Westphal recalled making his first trip to an All-Star Game in 1977 as a guard for the Phoenix Suns. The league hosted a modest dinner. Players received commemorative mugs. Anyone associated with the game stayed at the same hotel in downtown Milwaukee.“It wasn’t like it is now where the game takes over the whole city,” Westphal said.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar missed practice, Westphal said, then showed up about 20 minutes before the start of the game in a fur coat. Westphal helped seal his team’s win with a late steal against Pete Maravich. It was a moment he said he would never forget.This weekend, Westphal was in Charlotte, where he was named a finalist for the Basketball Hall of Fame. He said he was not planning to attend any parties.“Just dinner with friends,” he said.In Charlotte, the streets around the host arena, Spectrum Center, were choked with traffic. Concert fliers hung from every lamppost. And none of the guests, spread among numerous hotels at premium nightly rates, seemed to mind the cold weather as countless lines formed for restaurants, bars and pop-up musical performances.Given all the extracurriculars, it was easy to forget that basketball was the only reason anyone was here in the first place — and perhaps that was because the only legitimate basketball was being played in a college gymnasium a few miles from downtown. A group of elite teenage prospects, without much fanfare, had convened for the league’s annual Basketball Without Borders Global Camp.In all, 63 boys and girls from 31 countries played in front of scouts and executives who hoped to identify the sport’s next batch of stars.“There’s a lot of talent here,” said Brooks Meek, the N.B.A.’s vice president for international basketball operations.The spotlight will find them soon enough.Kevin Draper and Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDALLAS — Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs will soon become the fourth 70-year-old coach in N.B.A. history, but he remains undecided about coaching the Spurs beyond this season.Popovich, who turns 70 on Jan. 28, is in the last season of a five-year contract extension he signed after the Spurs won their most recent championship in 2014.“I don’t know the answer,” Popovich said when asked about his plans for next season in an interview Wednesday night after the Spurs’ 105-101 victory over the Dallas Mavericks.Popovich said he and R.C. Buford, San Antonio’s longtime team president, have periodically discussed the club’s various options after this season.“He’ll coach as long as he wants to coach,” Buford said.Whether or not he stays on the Spurs’ bench, Popovich has committed to spending the next two summers coaching the men’s national team for U.S.A. Basketball, at the 2019 FIBA World Cup in China and the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo. An Air Force Academy graduate who was one of the final cuts from the 1972 American Olympic team, Popovich has served as a U.S.A. Basketball assistant — but this will be his first stint in charge after being named to replace Mike Krzyzewski of Duke University as the head coach in October 2015.Among the challenges Popovich would face next season, should he elect to keep coaching the Spurs, is a turnaround of just two weeks between the end of the World Cup on Sept. 15 and the start of N.B.A. training camps.The Spurs have recovered from their off-season trade of Kawhi Leonard, the disgruntled All-Star forward, and an 11-14 start this season — the worst record under Popovich through 25 games. A 15-6 surge since then has moved them to No. 6 in the Western Conference.San Antonio is seeking a 22nd consecutive playoff appearance in a run that began in Popovich’s first full season as head coach. He coached the final 64 games of a 20-62 campaign in 1996-97, which earned San Antonio the No. 1 pick in the 1997 draft and the right to select Tim Duncan.Led by Popovich and Duncan, who retired in 2016, San Antonio won five championships across 15 seasons. But this season featured Popovich’s first training camp without at least one of three Spurs mainstays: Duncan, Manu Ginobili, who retired at the end of last season, and Tony Parker, who left San Antonio for Charlotte in free agency over the summer.On Popovich’s birthday, he will join Bill Bertka (71), Hubie Brown (71) and Larry Brown (70) as the only head coaches in league history to work into their 70s, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. Larry Brown gave Popovich and Buford their starts in the N.B.A. by bringing them in as assistant coaches with the Spurs in 1988.One of just five N.B.A. coaches in history to win at least five championships, Popovich recently moved into third place in coaching wins, behind Don Nelson and Lenny Wilkens. The other N.B.A. coaches to win five titles are Phil Jackson (11), Red Auerbach (nine), Pat Riley (five) and John Kundla (five).Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDENVER — There was a time not long ago that basketball success in the Rocky Mountains was measured by the Denver Nuggets’ ability to persuade a free agent of Dwyane Wade’s stature to meet team brass in New York and let the Nuggets offer him millions.In the summer of 2016, only one season into the career of Nikola Jokic and with few hints to that point that the Nuggets already had a cornerstone player, just getting the opportunity to pitch Wade face-to-face was widely hailed as a triumph for this franchise.What went unrevealed that off-season was that Denver also made a futile run at Wade’s longtime rival, Dirk Nowitzki of the Dallas Mavericks. Nowitzki had no interest in even entertaining the idea of leaving the only team he had ever known, but that was the Nuggets in the embryonic stages of Jokic’s development — straining to persuade some of the game’s biggest names to take them seriously.Three years later, Jokic is a certifiable All-Star and his team of upstarts from the Mile High City found an entertaining way on Tuesday night to win some leaguewide notice. Seemingly headed for a second consecutive playoff defeat to the San Antonio Spurs on its home floor, Denver rode a remarkable fourth-quarter resurrection from the third-year guard Jamal Murray to rally to a 114-105 victory over the Spurs that did far more than even this Western Conference first-round series at one game apiece.“Definitely saved the season,” Paul Millsap, Denver’s veteran forward, said in a quiet moment at his locker. “To go down, 0-2, against the San Antonio Spurs, going into their place, it’s a massacre waiting to happen.”Millsap’s candor conveyed a good chunk of the significance attached to this win, but not all of it. Murray’s eruption for 21 of his 24 points in the final period — on 8-for-9 shooting after he stood at 0-for-8 through three quarters — not only gave the hosts hope of making this an actual series but also spared them some real embarrassment and introspection.After five consecutive seasons out of the playoffs, Denver unexpectedly won 54 games this season to vault to No. 2 in the West. The Nuggets were nonetheless a trendy pick to suffer a first-round upset against the San Antonio masters of execution and their coaching maestro, Gregg Popovich, which would naturally render Denver’s regular-season accomplishments rather hollow.“Frauds” was the popular word being tossed around on N.B.A. Twitter after the Nuggets fell behind by 19 points — twice — in a must-win game. Booing broke out at Pepsi Center on multiple occasions in just Denver’s second home playoff game since 2013, with both Jokic and Nuggets Coach Michael Malone telling reporters afterward that the fans were too hard on Will Barton when they hissed at his 1-for-10 shooting.“When they’re going through a tough time, they could use some love,” Malone said of his players, who comprise the league’s youngest playoff roster.Fortunately for Barton and the rest of the Nuggets, it was all love in the fourth quarter, thanks largely to Murray, who shot 8-for-24 in Game 1 — including a wide-open elbow jumper he clanked in crunchtime that clearly haunted the Canadian guard well into Game 2.During one key timeout, Malone reminded his players “what the Clippers did” Monday night, when they rallied out of a 31-point deficit in the second half at Golden State to register the largest playoff comeback in N.B.A. history. The inspiration finally hit Murray in the fourth when, without warning, he drained his first eight shots.In support of Murray, Jokic rang up 21 points, 13 rebounds and 8 assists in a bid for a second consecutive triple-double, which would suggest that the Serbian big man is coping quite well with his first turn under a playoff microscope. Gary Harris and Millsap added 23 and 20 points, to give Denver four starters in the 20s.“We gave up 38 points in the fourth quarter,” said a seething Popovich. “End of story.”The collapse was even worse than Popovich realized. The Spurs actually allowed 39 points in the quarter — and San Antonio’s All-Star forward, LaMarcus Aldridge, could be subjected to some league discipline that affects his status for Thursday night’s Game 3 judging by video footage in circulation that appears to show Aldridge landing a below-the-belt shot on Harris.Not that the Nuggets, after days of hearing incessantly about how inexperienced they are, can feel any sort of comfort yet. They’ve lost 13 consecutive games in San Antonio dating to 2012. Denver is also 0-11, as a franchise, in best-of-seven series after losing Game 1.“I think the cynicism is fair,” Nuggets General Manager Tim Connelly said after the victory, acknowledging that he was well aware of the noise about his team.Yet Connelly pointed out that as fluky as skeptics might find the Nuggets’ No. 2 seed, team officials set three fairly lofty goals before the season started. Then they watched this group, largely assembled through Denver’s own shrewd drafting and trading, reach them all.End the playoff drought? Check.Win the Northwest Division? Check.Secure a top-four seed and home-court advantage in the first round of the postseason?Check.The next step was making sure they didn’t spoil all that by falling into an 0-2 hole to San Antonio with two home defeats, which is the sort of deficit only four teams in league history have managed to erase. Yet one of the more refreshing things about this team is that it doesn’t try to pretend that its collective lack of postseason experience is merely a topic harped on by the news media.The Nuggets have only three players (Millsap, Barton and Mason Plumlee) who appeared in a playoff game before Game 1 of this series, and they acknowledge it’s an obstacle, especially against a team that can carry out a game plan like the Spurs.“Yes, playoff basketball is everything everybody says it is,” Harris told me Monday, on the eve of Game 2.Breakthrough performances from Murray and Jokic and big comebacks, as such, must be celebrated — even at this early stage of Round 1.So in the middle of the victorious locker room, swept up in what the novices, er, the Nuggets had just achieved, Malone was duly pulled into a robust group hug by their rarely seen owner, Stan Kroenke, and Kroenke’s son Josh, the team’s president and governor.“It was fun,” Connelly said, “to watch some young guys grow up tonight.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherTwo top N.B.A. teams battling into double overtime. Memorable individual performances. And points, points, points. Thursday night’s game between the San Antonio Spurs and the Oklahoma City Thunder set a handful of records, but it was the Spurs who won, 154-147.LaMarcus Aldridge had his best night. Although he has averaged 20 points or more regularly, and frequently winds up in the 30s and 40s, Aldridge had never scored 50 points in an N.B.A. game until Thursday. And at halftime, it didn’t look as if Thursday would be the night, either; Aldridge had only 14 points. But a strong second half took him to 43, and the two overtimes gave him the extra minutes he needed to reach 56, a new career high.He tallied the 56 with six layups, three dunks, 11 midrange shots and 16 free throws. Notably, the 6-foot-11 Aldridge attempted no 3-pointers, which have powered most of the recent record-setting offensive performances in the modern N.B.A. (That was not surprising; Aldridge is only 2 for 14 on the year from distance.) Still, in padding his scoring in 1s and 2s, Aldridge became the first player to score 50 points without attempting a 3-pointer since Jermaine O’Neal had 55 for the Indiana Pacers in 2005.It was the most points by a Spurs player since David Robinson scored 71 in 1994, and the most against the Thunder franchise since Tom Chambers of the Suns poured in 60 against the team — then still the Seattle SuperSonics — in 1990.It wasn’t just the field goals. Aldridge was 16 of 16 on free throws, ranking second this season for perfection from the line. (James Harden had a 19-of-19 performance against the Detroit Pistons in November.) He also pitched in on defense, blocking four Thunder shots.“Well, he’s been a beast all year long,” Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich told ESPN after the game. “He anchors us on both ends of the floor.”As one might expect, Aldridge took a lot of shots in posting his big number. His 33 attempts were the most for a Spurs player since Tony Parker took 36 shots in a game in 2008.The other Spurs couldn’t miss from 3. While Aldridge stayed mostly down low, his teammates fired away from behind the 3-point line with almost superhuman accuracy, making 16 of 19 attempts. Their percentage, .842, was the highest ever for a team that took at least 10 3-pointers in a game, surpassing a 14-of-17 (.824) performance by the Chicago Bulls in 2005. It was a balanced attack, too, with Marco Belinelli going 5 for 5, Davis Bertans 4 for 4 and Bryn Forbes 3 for 3.The Thunder challenged some records of their own. Russell Westbrook had 24 assists in the loss, the second-highest total of the century, trailing only Rajon Rondo’s 25 for the Pelicans last season. That was part of a triple-double: Westbrook also had 24 points and 13 rebounds. That particular combination of at least 20 points, 10 rebounds and 20 assists is a rarity; it has been done only 12 times in the N.B.A. since 1960, and only one other time this century, in 2016 — by Westbrook.The scoreboard took a pounding. The combined 301 points in the game was the most since 2006, when the Suns and Nets combined to put up 318 in a double-overtime game. The Spurs’ 154 points were the most they had scored in a game since 1990.Both teams will enjoy a day off Friday, then suit up again on Saturday — in a rematch in Oklahoma City. Based on Thursday’s performances, that suddenly has become one of the most anticipated regular-season games in years.An earlier version of this article gave incorrect historical context for one superlative for LaMarcus Aldridge. He scored the most points by a Spur since David Robinson in 1994, not since George Gervin in 1978.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDENVER — Nikola Jokic scored 29 points and had a key strip in the closing seconds for the Denver Nuggets, who scored the game's final 15 points in a 99-95 win over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Wednesday night that secured the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs."We didn't give up," Jokic told the crowd after the Nuggets pulled out the improbable win to set up a first-round playoff series with the seventh-seeded San Antonio Spurs, instead of sixth-seeded Oklahoma City.The Nuggets are in the postseason for the first time in six years.Jamal Murray added 17 points, including the go-ahead 3-pointer with 31 seconds left that put Denver up 96-95. Jokic stripped Andrew Wiggins, who led the Timberwolves with 25 points, and then sank two free throws for a three-point cushion.Wiggins' 3-pointer to tie it hit the front of the rim and the Nuggets got the ball back. Paul Millsap was fouled at the other end with 4.2 seconds remaining. He sank his first free throw and missed his second, but teammate Will Barton corralled the rebound and dribbled out the clock.Gorgui Dieng added 18 points for the Timberwolves backups and rookie Cameron Reynolds scored a career-best 17 points, including a 3-pointer that put Minnesota ahead 95-84 with 4:01 left.They wouldn't score again.Jokic also pulled down 14 rebounds one night after his worst game of the year, one in which he scored just two points before fouling out in 16 minutes in a loss at Utah.A year ago, these two teams met on the final day of the regular season with a lot more at stake. The Timberwolves won that one in overtime in the first final-day play-in game in the NBA in 21 years, ending a 14-year playoff absence and extending Denver's drought to six seasons.Then, All-Star Jimmy Butler demanded a trade that torpedoed the Timberwolves, who fell to 36-46 and reverted to also-ran status while the Nuggets put together a 54-28 breakout for their first trip to the playoffs since 2012-13."Each one of our players deserves credit, because they've all bought in from Day 1," Malone said. "And I think we've used that motivation of losing in Minneapolis last year Game 82 because coming up short two years in a row is really hard and it's kind of motivated us to be the team we are right now."TIP-INS:Timberwolves: Minnesota played without starters Karl Anthony-Towns (right knee), Jeff Teague (left foot) and Robert Covington (right knee) and key reserves Taj Gibson (left calf) and Derrick Rose (right elbow).Nuggets: Denver finished an NBA-best 34-7 at home. ... The Nuggets earned a No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs for the sixth time in their history and for the first time since 2008-09, when they last won a playoff series, 4-1 over the Mavericks in the conference semifinals. They have lost their last five playoff series.FIRST THINGS FIRSTThe Timberwolves will make hiring a new president of basketball operations their first offseason priority. The fates of general manager Scott Layden and interim head coach Ryan Saunders have yet to be decided. Tom Thibodeau, who was fired Jan. 6, held the dual role of president of basketball operations and head coach."It really does not change anything for me one bit," Saunders said. "When I accepted this post in early January, I approached it as I'm the head coach until they tell me I'm not the head coach. And that's how I continue to look at things moving forward."UP NEXTTimberwolves: A search for a president, followed by decisions on Layden and Saunders.Nuggets: A return to the playoffs after a six-year absence, facing the San Antonio Spurs in the first round.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinU.S.A. Basketball plans to gauge the interest of the Duke University sensation Zion Williamson in joining the Americans’ 12-man squad for the FIBA World Cup in China this summer, according to a person familiar with U.S.A. Basketball’s intentions.No discussions have taken place with Williamson, whose freshman season at Duke ended Sunday with a 68-67 quarterfinal loss against Michigan State in the N.C.A.A. tournament.Formal talks with Williams, the presumptive No. 1 overall N.B.A. draft pick, would most likely not take place until Williams had officially declared his intention to turn professional and chosen an agent licensed by the N.B.A. to represent him, said the person, who was not authorized to speak publicly.But the precedent for such an invitation was set by the current U.S.A. Basketball hierarchy in 2012, when Anthony Davis — fresh off being drafted No. 1 overall out of Kentucky by the New Orleans Pelicans — earned a roster spot with Team USA at the London Olympics under Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski.The 2019 World Cup, which runs Aug. 31 to Sept. 15 in China, will be the first major competition for the United States since Krzyzewski was succeeded as coach by Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs. Williamson is widely regarded as the rare sort of talent, like Davis before him, who would not be out of place with the N.B.A. All-Stars expected to fill out Popovich’s roster — no matter who is coaching.The Athletic reported Monday that the Lakers’ LeBron James, a three-time Olympian, would not make himself available for the World Cup team this summer but that he had not ruled out playing for Team USA at the Tokyo Olympics in 2020.There was some hope in international basketball circles that James would consider playing in the World Cup since the Lakers had missed the playoffs and James would sit out the N.B.A. postseason for the first time since 2004-05.Jerry Colangelo, the chairman of U.S.A. Basketball, declined to discuss James or Williamson specifically when he was reached on Monday, saying only that roster invitations “will be addressed at the appropriate time.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersJamal Murray scored 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter, and the host Denver Nuggets rallied from down 19 to beat the San Antonio Spurs 114-105 in Game 2 of their Western Conference first-round playoff series on Tuesday night.Nikola Jokic had 21 points, 13 rebounds and eight assists, Gary Harris scored 23 points, and Paul Millsap had 20 points for Denver. The Nuggets tied the series 1-1 and ended San Antonio's seven-game playoff winning streak in Denver.DeMar DeRozan scored 31 points and LaMarcus Aldridge had 24 points for the Spurs.Murray, who missed his first eight shots, hit five consecutive shots in the fourth quarter, including two straight and a pair of free throws that gave Denver a 99-97 lead, its first advantage since 17-16. The Nuggets were ahead by three before Murray drained two 3-pointers to make it 110-101.Raptors 111, Magic 82Kawhi Leonard scored 37 points on 15-for-22 shooting from the field, and Toronto defeated visiting Orlando to even its first-round Eastern Conference playoff series at one game apiece.Pascal Siakam added 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who never trailed. Kyle Lowry contributed 22 points and seven assists for Toronto while Serge Ibaka chipped in with 13 points and eight rebounds off the bench.Aaron Gordon scored 20 points for the Magic, who split the regular-season series 2-2 with the Raptors. Terrence Ross added 15 points for Orlando while Evan Fournier scored 10 points.Trail Blazers 114, Thunder 94CJ McCollum and Damian Lillard combined for 62 points as Portland swept to a victory over visiting Oklahoma City.McCollum scored 33 points and Lillard added 29 as the Trail Blazers seized a 2-0 lead in the first-round Western Conference playoff series. Maurice Harkless chipped in 14 points and nine rebounds for Portland, which led by as many as 22 points in the fourth quarter.Paul George tallied 27 points with eight rebounds for the Thunder, who led by as many as 10 points in the first half. Russell Westbrook collected 14 points, 11 assists and nine boards for Oklahoma City but shot only 5 of 20 from the field.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDirk Nowitzki was mum all season on his future plans but after a rousing performance in the Dallas Mavericks' home finale Tuesday, the star finally announced the decision everyone expected."Wow. I'm a little overwhelmed, as you would think," Nowitzki told the sellout crowd after the Mavericks' 120-109 victory over the Phoenix Suns. "As you guys might expect, this is my last home game."Nowitzki made his much-anticipated retirement announcement after delivering a season-high 30-point performance, with five 3-pointers, against the Suns. The 7-footer scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history (31,540 points) finished the game with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 33 minutes.The 40-year-old Nowitzki, whose playing career will officially end Wednesday night when the Mavs play the San Antonio Spurs, was honored by the appearance of five of his childhood heroes -- Charles Barkley, Larry Bird, Scottie Pippen, Shawn Kemp and fellow German Detlef Schrempf -- for a postgame ceremony that included heartfelt speeches by Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle and owner Mark Cuban."Amazing that my heroes came out here for this game," Nowitzki said. "Thank you guys so much. Love you guys. Grew up watching you and idolizing you guys so this means more than you will ever know."Mark, can't wait to see what you've got for my jersey retirement. I mean, this is a high bar that you set. But as you guys might expect, this is my last home game."Nowitzki's final season didn't actually begin until mid-December thanks to a longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career and averaged 6.6 points in fewer than 15 minutes a game.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted M-V-P! M-V-P! Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2007 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
On Pro BasketballNo Spur over these past two decades of rampant San Antonio success left town the way Leonard did.Kawhi Leonard was back in San Antonio on Thursday to play his former team. The Spurs beat the Raptors, 125-107.CreditCreditRonald Cortes/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Marc SteinSAN ANTONIO — High above the floor at the AT&T Center hang the retired numbers of eight former San Antonio Spurs. Kawhi Leonard seemingly has a very strong case to see his old No. 2 hoisted among them someday.“I would think so,” Danny Green said Thursday night, when he and Leonard made their shared return to San Antonio as members of the Toronto Raptors.“He’s a finals MVP, led this team to a championship, won a couple defensive player of the years,” Green added. “Not everybody who’s come through here has done that.”Yet it’s likewise true that no Spur over these past two decades of rampant San Antonio success left town the way Leonard did. No prominent Spur before Leonard, in the Gregg Popovich era, ever forced his way out in such contentious circumstances.So you have to believe that it’s going to be a long time around here before the Spurs, and especially their jilted fans, will be able to look back with fondness on the undeniable highs of Leonard’s time in the Alamo City. That was the clear conclusion after the Spurs inflicted a 125-107 rout upon the Raptors in the teams’ first meeting since the blockbuster trade in July that sent Leonard to Toronto — thanks to the copious amounts of vitriol heaped in his direction for nearly three hours.Once dubbed the “future face of the franchise” by Popovich himself, Leonard was booed relentlessly in his first game as a visitor to the building that served as home for his first seven N.B.A. seasons. He was lustily booed on all 10 shots he took during pregame layup lines, heard the home crowd’s displeasure even louder when he was introduced right after the beloved Green and was booed every time he took possession of the ball for four full quarters.During a pregame tribute video titled “Thank You Danny & Kawhi,” Leonard and Green were alternately jeered and cheered depending on whose face showed up on the video board overhead. And on a trip to the free-throw line late in the first half, Leonard was serenaded with an unmistakable chant of “traitor, traitor, traitor.”The Spurs capitalized on the energy in the building, as well as the injury absence of the Toronto All-Star point guard Kyle Lowry (back), and romped to a 34-11 lead. Leonard finished with a muted 21 points and found little comfort beyond a postgame hug with Popovich — just two nights removed from a career-best 45 points in a victory over Utah.“I embraced it, enjoyed the moment and it’s only going to make me better,” Leonard insisted afterward.Local satisfaction was only amplified by the performance from the All-Star — DeMar DeRozan — that San Antonio acquired from Toronto in exchange for Leonard. To underline the marked improvement in his playmaking since becoming a Spur, as well as surely to spite the Toronto General Manager Masai Ujiri for giving up on him, DeRozan totaled 21 points, 14 rebounds and 11 assists for his first career triple-double.“I told him it was about time,” joked Popovich, who added that DeRozan is “playing downhill” and “attracting a crowd” to subsequently find open teammates better than he ever envisioned when the trade was made.“I didn’t know about the passing,” Popovich said.Cathartic as the whole evening seemed, though, it will take much more than one beatdown for the Spurs to say they have healed from the events of last season. The team’s relationship with Leonard steadily deteriorated to the point that the Most Valuable Player of the 2014 N.B.A. finals, rather than sign a $219 million contract extension, stunningly asked out.The presumed cause of that breakdown is disagreements over the treatment of a mysterious leg injury that limited Leonard to nine games last season. We have to presume, because Leonard has yet to explain the roots of his discontent, saying again at Thursday morning’s shootaround when asked to share his motivations for seeking a trade, “I’m not going to discuss that here today.”What’s undeniable is that the Spurs were rocked by (and are still recovering from) Leonard’s determination to play elsewhere this season and then proceed to free agency in July, when the Los Angeles Clippers are widely expected to emerge as a serious threat to sign Leonard away from the Raptors.Throughout the Popovich era, which began in earnest when he took over as coach 18 games into the 1996-97 season, San Antonio has emphasized and taken great pride in its player relations as much as any team on the N.B.A. map. It’s a big reason the Leonard saga stung the organization so deeply.“It was rough on everybody,” said San Antonio guard Bryn Forbes.Perhaps that’s why Popovich, when speaking to reporters before the game, struggled to play down the occasion. He initially dismissed the hoopla surrounding Leonard’s return as a focus for “mostly you guys” in the news media, before ultimately admitting, “But I get it.” Popovich understands as well as anyone that these wounds won’t heal quickly for anyone in South Texas.The Spurs, mind you, are trying. They’re up to a surprising seventh in the Western Conference at 22-17, despite a shortage of 3-point specialists, at a time they have never been more valued in the game, as well as concerns coming into the season about their collective ability defensively.After a 1-4 skid in early December in which it suffered defeats by 39, 31 and 34 points, San Antonio has won 11 of 14. The Spurs also rank No. 1 in the league in offensive efficiency and No. 4 in defensive efficiency over the past month since allowing 120 points in a Dec. 7 victory over the Los Angeles Lakers.It won’t be long, though, before the Spurs are reunited with Leonard again. The backdrop will be completely different, with Toronto playing host to San Antonio on Feb. 22 in front of what will surely be an adoring audience at Scotiabank Arena. But many of the same emotions are bound to be dredged up.“They love him,” Raptors Coach Nick Nurse said of Leonard. “They love their players in Toronto, as you know, and he gives them a little bit more every game.”As for where he stands with the San Antonians who once regarded him as an heir to those immortalized in the rafters — most notably Tim Duncan and David Robinson — Leonard was forced to acknowledge that it’s way too soon to even imagine repairing the damage his departure caused.“I really don’t reflect on what happened probably until I retire,” Leonard said.An earlier version of this article used an outdated name for the Toronto Raptors’ home court. It is now Scotiabank Arena, not Air Canada Centre.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday. He compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.--The Lakers, meanwhile, received permission to discuss their opening for head coach with Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams, ESPN reported, citing league sources.The Lakers are focusing on Williams and former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue, and general manager Rob Pelinka plans to speak with each candidate in the near future, league sources told ESPN.After spending the previous two years in the San Antonio Spurs' front office following the death of his wife Ingrid in 2016, Williams got back into coaching as Brett Brown's top assistant with the 76ers.--The 76ers fined veteran center Amir Johnson an undisclosed amount for showing teammate Joel Embiid his cell phone on the bench late in a 111-102 loss to the Brooklyn Nets in Game 1 of their playoff series.TV cameras caught Johnson on the bench in the fourth quarter, when the 76ers were 16 points down and he was scrolling through his phone. After showing Embiid something on his phone, Johnson put it into the pocket of his warm-ups."I apologize for having my phone on the bench in today's game," Johnson said in a statement released hours after the game by the 76ers. "I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions. I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."--Milwaukee Bucks forward Nikola Mirotic is expected to return from a thumb injury to play in Game 1 of the first-round series against the Detroit Pistons on Sunday.Mirotic missed the final 11 games of the regular season after fracturing his left thumb during a March 19 game against the Los Angeles Lakers.Mirotic fully participated in Friday's practice and took part in Saturday's non-contact practice. He had his thumb taped during both workouts.--The Washington Wizards announced they will not make a qualifying offer to free agent forward Devin Robinson after he was apparently arrested late Friday."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend a qualifying offer to him for the 2019-20 season," it read.According to Washington Post reporter Candace Buckner, who covers the Wizards, Robinson was involved in an altercation with Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills at a nightclub.--Toronto Raptors forward OG Anunoby could be sidelined until the Eastern Conference finals, should the team make it that far, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.Anunoby underwent an emergency appendectomy on Thursday.The second-year player, who is a key reserve for the Raptors, scored 7.0 points per game this season with an average of 2.9 rebounds. He played in 67 games this season, starting six of them, a year after he started 62 games as a rookie from Indiana.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCLEVELAND — LaMarcus Aldridge had 18 points and 13 rebounds as the San Antonio Spurs, who are in a three-team scramble to determine playoff seeding in the Western Conference, extended Cleveland's losing streak to nine games by beating the Cavaliers 112-90 on Sunday.The Spurs recently clinched a postseason spot for a NBA record-tying 22nd year in a row, but they don't yet know who they'll play in the first round. San Antonio came into the day in eighth place, which would mean an early matchup with defending champion Golden State.However, the Spurs can still move ahead of Oklahoma City and the Los Angeles Clippers as they own tiebreakers with both teams.DeMar DeRozan and Patty Mills added 14 points apiece for the balanced Spurs, who turned back every Cleveland challenge in the second half. Mills made three 3-pointers in a two-minute span early in the fourth quarter to end any chances of the Cavs rallying.Rookie Collin Sexton and Brandon Knight scored 16 each for Cleveland, and the Cavs celebrated the upcoming retirement of forward Channing Frye throughout the game.Kevin Love returned after missing four games and played 13 minutes in the first half — a salute to Frye, his close friend.San Antonio didn't pull away from Cleveland until midway through the second quarter and the Spurs used a 9-0 run over the final 2:05 to open a 62-46 halftime lead.With the popular Frye retiring after Tuesday's game and 13 seasons, Cavs coach Larry Drew started the 35-year-old for the first time since Jan. 9.Love wanted to play alongside Frye one last time and subbed in during the first quarter wearing his friend's No. 45 college jersey from the University of Arizona over his Cavaliers' jersey. The gesture couldn't have been easy for Love, who played at rival UCLA.When Frye hit a 3-pointer for Cleveland's first points, the Cavs bench erupted and the reserves, who all wore shooting shirts with "Channing" on the back, celebrated with high-fives.Frye, a key member of the Cavs' 2016 title team, played the first seven minutes and pretended to collapse on the bench when he finally came out.When he was pulled with 1:34 left in the game, Frye received a loud ovation before being tackled to the floor by teammates.TIP-INSSpurs: San Antonio's playoff streak is the longest active one in the league. Golden State and Houston are tied for second with seven. ... G Marco Belinelli (left hip soreness) sat out the first half. He didn't score in 10 minutes. ... Coach Gregg Popovich had kind words for Frye. "He's one of those stretch-4-kind-of guys we always talk about that really had an impact," Popovich said. "Most of my memories of him were in Phoenix, where he was really a big problem for us. He did such a great job and really cemented that, it's going to be part of the NBA forever — shooting big guys — and he was great at it. He's been a great teammate."Cavaliers: Sexton came in averaging 23.9 points over his past 15 games. ... G Matthew Dellavedova missed his 16th straight game with a concussion. ... Coach Larry Drew said he has not discussed his future with the club. Drew took over when Tyronn Lue was fired in October after a 0-6 start. Drew received a pay raise and new contract from the Cavs, which includes a team option for next season.UP NEXTSpurs: Host Dallas in regular-season finale on Wednesday.Cavaliers: Conclude season Tuesday at home against Charlotte.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDENVER — DeMar DeRozan scored 18 points and Derrick White had a key steal in the closing seconds in the San Antonio Spurs' 101-96 victory over the Denver Nuggets on Saturday night in Game 1 of their playoff series.White stole the ball at midcourt from Jamal Murray with 1.3 seconds left after LaMarcus Aldridge sank a pair of free throws following his key defensive rebound of Murray's errant shot that would have given the Nuggets a 98-97 lead with seven seconds left.Game 2 is Tuesday night in Denver, where the second-seeded Nuggets failed to parlay the NBA's best home-court record (34-7) into a win against the seventh-seeded but much more seasoned Spurs.San Antonio is making its 22nd straight playoff appearance, this one with a new cast that includes DeRozan, who came over from Toronto in the Kawhi Leonard trade.The Spurs' win marked the third by a road team on the opening day of the NBA playoffs. They joined the Nets, who won at Philadelphia, and Magic, who won at Toronto.The Nuggets, making their first playoff appearance in six years, trailed most of the night. Their last lead came with four minutes left in the first quarter but they trimmed a 12-point deficit to one in the closing minutes.They had the ball with 13 seconds left trailing 97-96 but Murray's shot was off — as it was all night — and Aldridge, who shot just 6 of 19 himself, corralled the rebound, then sank two free throws to make it 99-96 with 6.9 seconds remaining.The Nuggets were hoping for a game-tying 3 although they were just 6 of 28 from long range.They never got the chance, though, as White, a second-year pro who moved into a bigger role when Dejounte Murray got hurt in the preseason, stripped Murray and drew the foul, then sank both shots."He was spectacular," Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said. "For somebody who got put in that position and to learn that position with a bunch of new players, it's really remarkable what he's done. Hopefully, he'll continue to play that way because it's going to be a long series."Denver All-Star Nikola Jokic posted the fourth triple-double in Nuggets playoff history, with 10 points, 14 assists and 14 rebounds. But he was hesitant on offense all night, taking just nine shots and making four of them.Throttled by Aldridge, Jokic passed up opportunity after opportunity and shot an airball on a 3-pointer at a crucial moment in the second half that helped San Antonio hold off Denver's surge.)Popovich said it was a wash because Aldridge, who was 6-for-19 for 15 points, really didn't get going, either."We didn't let Jokic play as he wanted and they didn't let LaMarcus play as much as he wanted," Popovich said.White added 16 points for San Antonio and Aldridge and Bryn Forbes each had 15. Reserve Rudy Gay scored 14.Gary Harris led Denver with 20 points and Murray had 17, but that was on 8-of-24 shooting, including 0 for 6 from the arc.The Spurs made 15 of 20 shots in the second quarter to build a 59-51 halftime lead.The Spurs came out cold in the second half and the Nuggets pulled to 62-59. However, Denver missed open 3-pointers on four subsequent possessions with a chance to tie it.The Nuggets are the youngest team in the Western Conference playoffs with an average age just a tad under 25, and only four of them had any playoff experience before Saturday night. So, coach Michael Malone said before tip-off he expected his team to come out a bundle of nerves."This is not rocket science," Malone said. "This is still basketball. And we're going to continue to try to do what we've done at a very high level over the regular season. The biggest factor, the biggest concern will be the initial couple of minutes and trying to get those nerves out. Then I expect we'll be fine after that."They may have settled down but they never really settled in.Asked what adjustments he had in mind for Game 2, Malone said simply, "Make shots."TIP-INS:San Antonio: The Spurs have won five of six playoff series against the Nuggets with their only series defeat coming in 1985. ... The Nuggets held San Antonio to 13 points in the third quarter but managed just 17 themselves.Denver: The Nuggets are 6-21 against the Spurs in the playoffs. ... The Nuggets have lost seven of their last 12 home games against San Antonio. ... Denver won the Northwest Division title for the first time since 2010. ... Denver missed eight free throws.UP NEXTGame 2 is Tuesday night in Denver.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDENVER — Jamal Murray just couldn't get the bad taste out of his mouth, and even a bite of pretzel he poached from a kid after tumbling into the stands in the third quarter wasn't exactly satisfying."It was really dry," Murray said.Maybe it was just what Murray needed, however, helping spark his fabulous fourth quarter that fueled the Denver Nuggets' 114-105 comeback over the San Antonio Spurs and knotting their playoff series 1-1.Murray's late heroics may very well have salvaged Denver's season.Teammates told him to keep shooting the ball when his shots kept rimming out. Finally, he found his touch, scoring 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter."Everybody told me to stick with it," Murray said. "I don't think I scored a field goal until the fourth. I just stuck with it. They all believed in me."The Nuggets were in danger of losing a second straight game at the Pepsi Center after posting the NBA's best home record (34-7) during the regular season. They trailed 78-59 late in the third quarter before closing the game on a 55-27 run."Coach said we are a team that never gives up," Nuggets center Nikola Jokic said. "That's true. We never give up. We lost the first game. We were down 19. That's all excuses. But we never gave up. There is something about this team. We have a heart. We're never going to let you win so easy."It was looking very much like an easy win for San Antonio, which frittered away two 19-point leads."We gave up 38 points (actually, 39) in the fourth quarter. End of story," fumed Spurs coach Gregg Popovich, who drew a technical foul during the Nuggets' comeback.Nuggets coach Michael Malone said he never considered benching Murray because he didn't want to crush his confidence. He said he took him aside at halftime and told him to take a deep breath and trust his shots would start falling."Never once did I think about pulling him from the lineup," Malone said.Good thing, too, because Murray, the goat in Game 1 after missing an open jumper and turning the ball over in the closing seconds, might have salvaged the Nuggets' season while going 8 for 9 in the fourth quarter.The series shifts to San Antonio, where the Nuggets haven't won since 2012, for Game 3 on Thursday night."We had to have this one," Denver's Paul Millsap said. "Going down 0-2 into San Antonio would've been a tough situation for us. To pull this one off the way we did, was unbelievable."Thanks to Murray, who not only waited until the end to get going in the game but was a late arrival in the postgame news conference."It was great to see him make shots," Millsap said. "I think he's got his confidence back. The key was to continue to take shots. If you miss them, so what? Shoot with confidence, and he did."Malone said he was bursting with pride over Murray's phenomenal bounce-back."He was so frustrated at halftime, not making shots, shots that he's made his whole career," Malone recounted. "I just grabbed him. I said, 'Listen, take a deep breath. You're putting too much pressure on yourself. Every shot right now was like the end of the world. I believe in you. I love you. Just go out there and play.'""It was great to see him have some success. After Game 1. And after the first half. Really happy for Jamal and for him to step up and basically close the game out with his shot-making that he had down the stretch. The first of many for Jamal Murray, I have no doubt."STILL HAPPYDeMar DeRozan said the Spurs still felt good leaving Denver despite blowing those big leads and a big opportunity to take a 2-0 lead."We got Game 1. We fought, tried to get Game 2 but we've got home court shifting our way," he said. "Now it's on us to go home and do what we need to do and understand if we take care of home like we've been doing all year, we can come back here with an opportunity. So, we feel great about where we're at. We understood it wasn't going to be a cakewalk."TIP-INS:San Antonio: The Spurs fell to 21-7 against Denver in the playoffs. They had won seven of their last 12 games in Denver, including the regular season. ... The Spurs got 31 points from DeRozan, 24 from LaMarcus Aldridge and 17 from Derrick White.Denver: Millsap added 20 points for Denver and Jokic just missed his second triple-double of the series, scoring 21 points, pulling down 13 rebounds and dishing out eight assists. ... The Nuggets ended a seven-game home losing streak to San Antonio in the playoffs.UP NEXTThe series shifts to San Antonio for Game 3 Thursday night.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSAN ANTONIO — Dirk Nowitzki said goodbye to the NBA the same way he came into the league, smoothly draining a jumper over a defender to punctuate a passionate performance.It was only fitting that Nowitzki's final shot came against the San Antonio Spurs, a team he terrorized in the regular season and postseason. This time, however, the tears it stirred were tears of joy.LaMarcus Aldridge had 34 points and 16 rebounds and the Spurs beat the Dallas Mavericks 105-94 Wednesday night in Nowitzki's final game."Everybody, players, fans, coaches and staff got to witness history watching him play his last game," San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich said. "He played a fine game, which was great. It's not surprising."Nowitzki finished with 20 points and 10 rebounds in the finale of his storied 21-season career — all with the Mavericks. Nowitzki announced he was retiring Tuesday night following Dallas' final home game of the season.Wednesday's sell-out crowd cheered wildly each time Nowitzki entered the game or touched the ball and let out a collective groan when he missed a shot. He was serenaded with chants of "MVP!" throughout the game by the crowd filled with patrons wearing his No. 41 jersey."It was fantastic again tonight," Nowitzki said. "Felt almost like a home game, honestly."The Spurs couldn't afford any sentimentality with playoff positioning at stake, and they didn't show any. San Antonio raced to a double-figure lead and led by as many as 22 points.The Spurs finished seventh in the Western Conference as a result of Oklahoma City's 127-116 victory over Milwaukee. They will face the No. 2 seed, either Denver or Houston, in the opening round of the playoffs.The regular-season finale turned out to be a win for everyone. San Antonio won, Nowitzki led the Mavericks in scoring and Popovich, the Spurs and San Antonio's fans got to say goodbye to the future Hall of Famer."He was having a lot of fun tonight, I was really happy for him," Popovich said.It was appropriate that Nowitzki's final game came against the Spurs, who he has had many memorable battles against. Perhaps the most memorable was the 2006 Western Conference finals against San Antonio. After the Spurs battled back from a 3-1 series deficit and a 20-point lead in Game 7, Manu Ginobili fouled Nowitzki on a layup with 21.6 seconds remaining. Nowitzki made the free throw to forge a tie and the Mavs went on to win in overtime on the way to the franchise's first NBA Finals appearance."If it's not at home, this kind of works perfect," Nowitzki said of San Antonio. "This team was always sort of the big brother. They were beating us and then we kind of found a way to get through them in '06. To me, probably still one of the best playoff series I've been a part of and probably some of the best basketball in that series that I've ever played in my life."Nowitzki was able to turn back the clock, shooting 8 for 21 in 32 minutes, including going 2 for 6 on 3-pointers. His final shot was a 20-footer over Spurs rookie Drew Eubanks with 49.7 seconds remaining.Dallas coach Rick Carlisle subbed Nowitzki following the shot, leading to an ovation of cheers and chants of "Dirk" and "MVP.""It's cool playing against Dirk tonight," Spurs guard DeMar DeRozan said. "Seeing him out there and playing against one of the greatest of all time for the last time, it was cool. Hopefully, I got a good photo op."Derozan finished with 19 points and Derrick White added 14 for the Spurs, who finished with a 49-34 record.Justin Jackson and Courtney Lee added 14 points each for Dallas, which was without Rookie of the Year candidate Luka Doncic.TIP-INSMavericks: Nowitzki averaged 15.3 minutes and started 20 games this season, the lowest numbers of his career. He started 24 games as a rookie while playing 20.4 minutes. ... Nowitzki has played 38 games in San Antonio, tied for the third-highest total of any player. Utah legends Karl Malone and John Stockton each played 46 games in San Antonio. Denver's Alex English played 39, and Houston's Hakeem Olajuwon played 38. ... Doncic missed three of Dallas' final four games due to a thigh injury. He missed back-to-back games against Memphis with a bruised right thigh, played 32 minutes against Phoenix, and missed the team's finale with a bruised left thigh.Spurs: Bryn Forbes finished with 10 points in 26 minutes. . San Antonio only had four players in double figures.THANK YOU, DIRKThe Spurs played a 1 ½-minute tribute video in honor of Nowitzki, highlighting his 21 seasons in the NBA.Nowitzki looked up to watch the video on the big screen at the AT&T Center, but had to turn away as he began to cry."The first 20, 30 seconds, I was kind of holding it (in)," Nowitzki said. "I was like, 'That's sweet,' and then it just kind of all came out. I'm not sure why. Not only did they show highlights from my career, but they showed highlights from me beating up on the Spurs, which was even more incredible."UP NEXTMavericks: The offseason.Spurs: First round of the Western Conference playoffs.___Advertisement
Filip Peraić needed a career boost. He found one by drawing Harden, the Houston Rockets guard, in profile over and over and over again.CreditCreditFilip PeraićSupported byBy Benjamin HoffmanFilip Peraić was in a rut. A freelance illustrator bored of his contract work, he had hoped to reignite his love of art through a long-term personal project.It made sense that Peraić, 30, who is from the basketball-obsessed city of Zadar, Croatia, would come up with a project related to the N.B.A. But instead of taking a broad look at his favorite players, or honoring his country’s many N.B.A. stars, Peraić decided to do something more specific — remarkably so. His project would consist entirely of portraits of James Harden’s head in profile, from the right side of the Houston Rockets star’s face.Suddenly Harden, who is known for his distinctive beard, existed in portrait form — as a tribute to Jackson Pollock in one of Peraić’s works and as a tribute to Wassily Kandinsky in another. There was one in the style of a medical illustration, and another that was a map of the fictional country of Hardenia. His beard became a giant whale, and it took on the distinctive curls of a Greek philosopher. In one particularly disturbing image, Harden’s face was replicated with human hair. In all, Peraić’s project, which came to be known as James Harden Illustrated, had 26 images, each one seemingly more bizarre than the previous one.“The best portraits are when I surprise myself,” Peraić said in a telephone interview. “I’m thinking about James Harden’s head constantly — it’s my passion project.”With Harden in the middle of a remarkable season, in which he is almost certain to finish with the highest scoring average of any player in N.B.A. history besides Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan, Peraić is set to release another batch of the illustrations. The first was posted Thursday, and there will be one released each week for the next seven weeks, thus carrying Peraić’s followers into the playoffs.On Tuesday, in hopes of showcasing the existing work in advance of the new batch, Peraić tweeted out a thread of the 26 original images, which were completed from 2013 to 2017. The thread caught fire and was shared and favorited thousands of times.Peraić said the attention the posts received was gratifying, but he was especially excited by certain people who noticed them.He referred to a few journalists who shared the post, then mentioned two people who favorited the thread: Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Rockets, and Kirk Goldsberry, a former San Antonio Spurs executive. “That’s really cool because as an N.B.A. geek, I follow these people constantly,” Peraić said. “To see them reacting to my work is really rewarding.”Then there was Harden. He was once interviewed on TNT with a poster of Peraić’s portraits behind him. But other than that, Peraić did not know how Harden felt about the work. That changed Wednesday afternoon. Harden tweeted six of the images, reacting to each with emoji. “Yo @filiperaic,” Harden wrote in the first of the series of tweets, “these are dope!”Beyond rubbing elbows online with his N.B.A. heroes, Peraić has experienced tangible career benefits from the project. Recently, he worked on a series of images for the singer-songwriter Leon Bridges, and while the images may not have Harden’s beard in them, they are clearly in the same vein as the Harden project.The rut he had found himself in career-wise, it seemed, had created an opportunity.“I started this project just for my own pleasure and to try something else because I wasn’t satisfied with the kind of work I was getting,” Peraić said. “Now art directors come up to me and say, ‘We want this kind of James Harden portrait.’”Amusingly enough, considering how much time Peraić spends thinking about Harden, the Rockets guard is not, and has never been, the illustrator’s favorite player. He mentioned living near the city in Croatia where Drazen Petrovic, the Hall of Famer, grew up, and said he had always preferred Manu Ginobili and Kobe Bryant over Harden.“People think that I’m obsessed with James Harden, and that’s really not the case,” he said. “I just wanted to pick someone that had an interesting face that was easily recognizable.”Of the original batch of portraits, Peraić said his favorites were one comprising a single line and another in which Harden’s profile had morphed into a thermal image of an approaching hurricane.“I like repetition, and I’m a bit stubborn,” he said when asked how he could keep coming back to the same image. “When I made a couple of them I thought, ‘This is really interesting.’ It’s a challenge for me.”The images can take anywhere from a few hours to a few days to complete, with one in which Harden’s profile was recreated using only flowers and other vegetation representing the high-water mark for effort so far. The project requires enough time that it has regularly run up against Peraić’s contract work, which forced the recent pause in his output. He acknowledged that of the eight works planned for the new batch, only six are complete so far.When he finishes the final two, that will bring the project to 34 portraits. Until the next one.“I feel that this is a never-ending project,” Peraić said. “Maybe if James Harden shaves his beard, that would be the end.”Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe N.B.A. said Monday that it required the New Orleans Pelicans to play Anthony Davis, their disgruntled All-Star, after he was not traded before last week’s trade deadline because of “league rules governing competitive integrity.”The Pelicans initially planned to sit Davis for the rest of the season once they responded to his request to be traded by deciding to keep him beyond Thursday’s deadline, according to two people familiar with New Orleans’ stance who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.But the league office said it intervened because of its rules about resting healthy players, which are in place largely to prevent teams from weakening their rosters intentionally to incur losses that could improve their draft position in June. The practice is known as “tanking.”The Pelicans maintain that they were trying to protect Davis from a serious injury during the final 28 regular-season games before the off-season, when they do intend to trade him after they field offers from a wider base of teams than those who made competitive offers last week, according to the people.Mike Bass, an N.B.A. spokesman, said Monday that “the Pelicans were advised that the team had not identified a proper basis” to hold Davis out of games.“League rules governing competitive integrity therefore require that he be permitted to play,” Bass said.Bass also denied an ESPN report from last week that said the Pelicans were threatened by the league with per-game fines of $100,000 if they sat Davis when he wanted to play.[With Anthony Davis on His Way Out, New Orleans Tries to Plot Its Path]Davis, who can become a free agent in July 2020, requested a trade from the Pelicans on Jan. 28 but did not insist that he be traded before the deadline, The Times reported last week. As part of the trade request, Davis also told the Pelicans that he intended to decline their offer of a $240 million contract extension in July and that the Los Angeles Lakers and the Knicks were the two teams he was most open to signing a long-term deal with.Upon learning of New Orleans’ plans to sit Davis after the Pelicans and Lakers broke off days of contentious trade talks, Davis’s agent, Rich Paul, lobbied league officials on Davis’s behalf to clear him to play, according to the people.Both Paul and Michele Roberts, head of the N.B.A. Players Association, declined to comment Monday.“Anthony Davis will play the remainder of the 2018-19 season for the New Orleans Pelicans,” New Orleans General Manager Dell Demps said in a statement last week. “A number of factors contributed to this decision. Ultimately Anthony made it clear to us that he wants to play and gives our team the best opportunity to win games. Moreover the Pelicans want to preserve the integrity of the game and align our organization with N.B.A. policies. We believe Anthony playing upholds the values that are in the best interest of the N.B.A. and its fans. We look forward to seeing Anthony in a Pelicans uniform soon.”Davis has since appeared in two games with New Orleans, averaging 28.5 points and 12.5 rebounds in 29.5 minutes per game in a win (over Minnesota) and a defeat (in Memphis).The N.B.A. has been increasingly vigilant in sanctioning teams for resting healthy players since an incident in November 2012, when the San Antonio Spurs were fined $250,000 for sending Tim Duncan, Tony Parker, Manu Ginobili and Danny Green home with virtually no notice before a nationally televised game in Miami.This season, though, several players with smaller profiles than Davis have been shelved by their teams in anticipation of a trade without any public pushback from the N.B.A.Like Davis, Chandler Parsons of Memphis and Carmelo Anthony, the former Houston Rocket, wanted to play but were benched for months. Parsons has since rejoined the Grizzlies after they were unable to find a new home for him via trade before the deadline; Anthony spent more than two months in exile before the Rockets traded him to the Chicago Bulls on Jan. 21. Anthony became a free agent on Feb. 3 after the Bulls released him and he cleared waivers.Cleveland’s J.R. Smith and Zach Randolph, the former Sacramento King who was traded to Dallas last week, have also been inactive for long spells this season — but both by mutual agreement with their teams.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellSometime in the third quarter, as the Philadelphia 76ers rained down 3-pointers like mortar shots and Ben Simmons, a giant point guard possessed of preternatural passing ability and a bricklayer’s touch, carved through the Nets, a thought occurred:This was not the playoff homecoming of the Nets’ dreams.The Nets tried but never really contended Thursday night. The men from Philadelphia simply had too much talent and too many big bodies on their way to a 2-1 first-round series lead, and that was a shame. Saddled with the worst attendance in the N.B.A. this season, Barclays Center in Brooklyn was packed to the gills with fans waving towels and hooting and yelling. The joint was packed and joyfully rocking.The Nets are a pretty good pro hoops team in a city where terrible often rules the roost. Their coach, Kenny Atkinson, a likable and intelligent basketball lifer, took over a team that was expected to dwell in the cellar and won more games, 42, than it lost, 40, this season.That was in contrast to the disaster masquerading as a basketball team at Madison Square Garden, where the Knicks’ management team crafted a grotesquely bad team that finished 17-65. (Losing no longer impresses because the Knicks have posted losing records in 15 of the last 18 years.) In a sign that God may have a strange sense of humor, those same Knicks are widely rumored to be a favorite to gain the services of the brilliant forward Kevin Durant, who can become a free agent this summer.But enough about that other New York team.After falling into a deep ditch under previous management, the Brooklyn Nets have executed a slow, steady rebuild, instilling discipline and a sense of Nets basketball, which is to say a fluid, slashing style that relies on small forwards and guards bolstered by lean, swift centers who block shots and rebound and run. Their general manager, Sean Marks, a former San Antonio Spurs assistant and executive, has picked up talented role players much as a fishmonger sorts through a barrel and plucks out tasty sea bass.The Nets have a fine quartet of guards and small forwards, D’Angelo Russell and Spencer Dinwiddie, Joe Harris and Caris LeVert, creative players all, who can probe and find seams in defenses and stroke jump shots.So this game on Thursday offered a chance to draw the measure of a Nets team rising more quickly than expected and of a Sixers team that hopes to compete for a championship. On that last point I walked away nursing doubts.The Sixers for six years were an experimental laboratory, their former general manager Sam Hinkie occupying a reputational land between supposed genius and madman. They lost intentionally and insistently, and accumulated top draft picks, not the least the 6-foot-10 point guard Simmons and the splendidly talented big man Joel Embiid. Sixers ownership eventually discarded Hinkie. But that team now is expected to contend, and the current general manager made a series of trades toward that end this season.Yet a week into playoff season, the engine of that 76ers machine is coughing. Embiid has come up with a chronically sore knee. That is a problem for any athlete, much less a 7-foot, 270-pound center. The assumption Thursday night was that he would play, an impression reinforced when Embiid took the court an hour before the game and shot around. He shot fadeaways and spun like a dervish and put up graceful hook shots.Then minutes before tipoff, the 76ers’ coaches shook their heads. Nope, his knee was too sore. Embiid was sitting. That left the big man in a bad mood. Moments before the tip, as teammates walked over to dap him up and slap his back, Embiid could barely look at them or the court.Simmons is no less talented, and perhaps more baffling. He is a brilliant athlete with stunning vision and dribbling ability. When he breaks swiftly into the open court, his passing takes on a sleight-of-hand quality, so quick that you notice the ball only as it lands in the hands of a teammate.Alas, his shooting edges toward disastrous, and his confidence in it is sodden. Rather than put his hand under the ball, he puts it off to the side, his left elbow sticking out like a chicken wing. He practices his shooting before games with often unsightly results. On Thursday evening, he stood in the corner and took pass after pass from an assistant coach and shot and shot. He made, by my count, five baskets in 15 attempts. Then he took 3-point shots from the shoulder of the key, going 1 for 6.You wanted to cover your eyes and suggest that maybe he should stick to layups. Yet by shooting layups and hook shots and dunks, he finished the game with 31 points and 9 assists.He is the best fundamentally unsound player in the N.B.A. And you wonder how this still unformed 22-year-old star and a gimpy-knee center can stumble into the N.B.A. finals.In a strange way, on this night, Embiid’s absence liberated his teammates. They shot 40 percent from 3-point range to the Nets’ 20 percent, and they outrebounded them, too.If the 76ers have a playoff advantage, it may reside with their veteran talent, in particular Tobias Harris, Jimmy Butler and J.J. Redick. During a Nets run late in the third quarter, Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown called a timeout and drew up a play. Then you saw Redick stand up and start talking and pointing. Then Butler leaned in and interjected. Brown fell silent, then nodded in agreement. Fine, he said, we’ll run it differently.As they walked out onto the court after the timeout, Butler and Redick kept talking, resembling two professors discussing a knotty physics problem. “That was pros talking to pros,” Brown said later.The Nets are a young crew, not unduly burdened by egos and attitude. But they are not yet at a pros-talking-to-pros level. They are a promising troupe still in search of a leading man.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDALLAS — Dirk Nowitzki’s final N.B.A. game will take place in the same city — San Antonio — where he played what he considers the most important game of his life as well as what many rank as the best game of his career.Wednesday’s date with the San Antonio Spurs is suddenly poised to be recorded as the final outing of Nowitzki’s 21 seasons with the Dallas Mavericks — thanks to the retirement announcement he sprang on the American Airlines Center crowd after Dallas’s 120-109 victory Tuesday night over the Phoenix Suns.After scoring a season-high 30 points, albeit on 31 shot attempts, Nowitzki punctuated a postgame ceremony arranged to honor his long and decorated career by announcing that he is indeed retiring from the sport.“As you guys might expect, this is my last home game,” Nowitzki told the fans, finally addressing his future after trying to dodge questions on that topic all season in a futile attempt to avoid a so-called farewell tour.The Mavericks’ regular-season finale on the Spurs’ floor thus provides Nowitzki with a serendipitous opportunity to go out where he broke in. It was a 33-point, 14-rebound performance in the 1998 Nike Hoop Summit Game in San Antonio as a 19-year-old that, in Nowitzki’s words, “literally changed my life,” convincing Dallas that it had to do anything it could to draft the little-known German.Nowitzki, 40, went on to overcome a string of playoff disappointments and lead the Mavericks to the only championship in franchise history in 2011. His 21 consecutive seasons with one team is an N.B.A. record — and the 37 points and 15 rebounds he delivered against the five-time champion Tim Duncan in Game 7 of the Western Conference finals in San Antonio in 2006 is widely regarded as his most complete single-game performance.As the game’s sixth career leading scorer with 31,540 points, Nowitzki is often described as the best European import in N.B.A. history and credited with ushering in the modern era of power forward play in which players of all sizes were not only encouraged but expected to shoot proficiently from long range.“He’s our Roger Staubach,” said the longtime Mavericks General Manager Donnie Nelson, who did the loudest lobbying to persuade his father Don, then the Mavericks’ coach and general manager, to make any maneuvers necessary to select Nowitzki in the 1998 draft.Mark Cuban, the team’s owner, announced recently that the reluctant Nowitzki was getting an ornate send-off against the Suns “whether he wants it or not.” The Mavericks duly arranged for five of Nowitzki’s favorite players growing up — Charles Barkley, Scottie Pippen, Shawn Kemp, Detlef Schrempf and even Larry Bird — to fly in, stay out of public view during the game and then emerge to take part in the ceremony.The game itself, predictably, was also all about Nowitzki, with teammates, particularly the league’s rookie of the year favorite, Luka Doncic, feeding him incessantly as fans bayed at him to shoot at every opportunity.Before tipoff, Nowitzki jokingly asked a team staffer to look up how many shots Kobe Bryant took on the way to scoring 60 points in Bryant’s farewell game in April 2016. Informed that Bryant hoisted 50 shots that night, Nowitzki conceded that he very likely wouldn’t reach that territory, but promised to “let it fly.” He wound up taking Dallas’s first eight shots, scored 19 points in the first half and finished with 30 points on 11-for-31 shooting to match what his longtime rival Dwyane Wade of the Miami Heat managed in Wade’s final home game before retirement Tuesday night.The Suns’ Jamal Crawford, at 39, remarkably countered with 51 points, making Crawford the first player in league history to crack the 50-point mark with four different teams. The spotlight, though, never left Nowitzki, who revealed at a news conference after the game that he had decided in recent days that his surgically repaired left foot could not sustain a 22nd season.“I would love to be there for K.P. and Luka and all these young guys and have fun with them and mentor them as much as I can,” Nowitzki said, referring to Dallas’s embryonic star duo of Kristaps Porzingis and Doncic. “But it just doesn’t make any sense anymore physically. I think mentally I could still do it — I can always push myself to work out hard — but physically the foot is just not quite there.”Said Doncic, whose 21 points, 16 rebounds and 11 assists were overshadowed, like Crawford’s scoring outburst, by the Nowitzki party, “I was emotional, and the whole team was emotional, so imagine him.”Nowitzki acknowledged that he has been increasingly weepy over the past week, as the end of the regular season for the lottery-bound Mavericks — and a decision he could no longer delay — drew near. But he was openly giddy when he spoke of the former stars who shared in Tuesday’s festivities, proclaiming it an “amazing” evening.“They did this right,” he said.Asked if he was bothered at all that one more road game remained on Dallas’s schedule, as opposed to closing out the regular season at home, Nowitzki scoffed at the idea that the league’s schedule-makers had wronged him.“I’m totally fine with it,” he said. “The N.B.A. can’t keep up with the plans of a million players. They didn’t know if I was going to retire this season, last season or whatever.”There was likewise no protest from Holger Geschwindner, Nowitzki’s longtime shooting coach and the former captain of West Germany’s 1972 Olympic team. Geschwindner is known in Mavericks circles for being far harder to please than his star pupil, but he embraced the storybook nature of Nowitzki’s returning to the scene of his breakthrough performance at the Hoop Summit by traveling to South Texas one last time.“I think it’s great,” Geschwindner said. “That’s where it all started.”An earlier version of this article incorrectly described Dwyane Wade’s game Tuesday night. It was his final home game in Miami before retirement, not his final game.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThe Golden State Warriors are trying to regain the lead in a series they probably still can't believe is tied.Same with the San Antonio Spurs, who like the Warriors know they are facing an opponent who won't stay down no matter how far they fall down.The Clippers' historic comeback against the Warriors, followed by Denver's potential season-saving surge against the Spurs, made that clear.So things are all even in those two Western Conference first-round series, which resume with a pair of Game 3s on Thursday night.Philadelphia and Brooklyn play the other Game 3 of the night in an East series that also is tied at a game apiece.Golden State would be up 2-0 if not for the Clippers' colossal comeback — or the Warriors' colossal collapse — on Monday night in Game 2. The Warriors led by 31 in the third quarter before Los Angeles charged back to win 135-131 after the biggest rally in NBA postseason history.The Warriors won Game 1 by 17, appeared headed toward an even easier win in Game 2, and yet go into Game 3 basically starting from scratch."If you were up 30 with a quarter and a half to go, you just lose out of nowhere, it's like somebody ran up to you and punched you in the guy and ran away," Kevin Durant said. "It's shock. I don't even know how to explain it."The seventh-seeded Spurs took the series opener against a Denver team that was an NBA-best 34-7 at home during the regular season. San Antonio then was up 78-59 late in the third quarter of Game 2 before Jamal Murray's 21-point fourth quarter carried the Nuggets to a 114-105 victory.At least the Spurs, unlike the Warriors, can regroup in their home building, where the Nuggets haven't won since 2012."It's definitely not ideal to have a lead and then blow it like that," Spurs forward LaMarcus Aldridge said. "We came in and definitely played a pretty good first half, but you know when you come on the road in the playoffs and you win one game on the road, that's great. So we've got to go home and try to take care of business."A look at Thursday's games:76ERS AT NETSTied 1-1. Game 3, 8 p.m. EDT, TNTNEED TO KNOW: After dropping the opener and leading by only one at halftime of Game 2, the 76ers finally looked like favorites by pouring in 51 points in the third quarter to roll to a 145-123 victory. Now they go to the home of the Nets, who have won Game 3 in their last three playoff series dating to the first round in 2014.KEEP AN EYE ON: Joel Embiid. Even limited by knee soreness, he has double-doubles in both games to give him nine in his first 10 postseason games. Only Hall of Famers Wilt Chamberlain and Oscar Robertson had more.INJURY WATCH: The Nets are listing veteran forward Jared Dudley as probable. His defense played a key role in the opener but he missed Game 2 with right calf tightness.PRESSURE IS ON: Brooklyn's starters. The bench helped carry the Nets after a slow start in Game 1, but the hole was too big to climb after the dismal beginning to the second half of Game 2.NUGGETS AT SPURSSeries tied at 1. Game 3, 9 p.m. EDT, NBATVNEED TO KNOW: With their Game 2 win, the Nuggets snapped a five-game skid to the Spurs in the playoffs that dated to 2007. They couldn't afford to fall 2-0 given the Nuggets have dropped 13 straight in San Antonio.KEEP AN EYE ON: Gary Harris. Sure, Murray scored 21 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter, and big man Nikola Jokic just missed his second triple-double of the series, but Harris chipped in 23. He flies under the radar.PRESSURE IS ON: Aldridge and DeMar DeRozan. The tandem combined 55 points, but may need to take their game to an even higher level — if that's possible. "We had control of the game. We just let the fourth quarter get away," Aldridge said. "We didn't execute defensively as well as we had the other three quarters and we let those guys get going a little bit."WARRIORS AT CLIPPERSTied 1-1. Game 3, 10:30 p.m. EDT, TNTNEED TO KNOW: Lou Williams, the favorite for Sixth Man of the Year, is averaging 30.5 points and 10 assists in the series. Fellow reserve Montrezl Harrell has scored 25.5 points on 20-of-24 shooting.KEEP AN EYE ON: Durant and Patrick Beverley. Beverley's antics in defending the 6-foot-9 Durant are fun to watch, and having some success. Durant took only eight shots in Game 2 and coach Steve Kerr wants him to be more aggressive."The guy is the most skilled basketball player on planet earth," Kerr said. "There's nobody who can do what he can do. It's the playoffs. Defenses are more locked in, they're playing everybody tougher. I don't know how many shots he got the other night, seven, eight. Absolutely he needs to be more aggressive. It's the playoffs. He can get any shot he wants any time. I want to see him get 20 shots, 30."INJURY WATCH: With DeMarcus Cousins lost to a torn left quadriceps muscle, Andrew Bogut will step in to start for the two-time defending champions. He re-signed last month for a second stint with the franchise after playing for the 2015 champions and the '16 team that won 73 games before losing to LeBron James and the Cavaliers in Game 7 of the finals."This is why we got him, just in case," Kerr said.In addition, Kevon Looney will see increased minutes. He scored a career-high 19 points on 6-for-6 shooting in Game 1 filling in for Cousins, who won't require surgery for the injury. The big man returned in January from a nearly yearlong absence recovering from surgery for a torn left Achilles tendon.PRESSURE IS ON: Golden State's defense. The Warriors allowed 85 points in the second half of Game 2, too much even for their potent offense to overcome.___AP Sports Writers Pat Graham in Denver, Colorado and Janie McCauley in Oakland, California contributed to this report.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel VictorIn his two years as president of basketball operations for the Los Angeles Lakers, Magic Johnson presided over a team as chaotic and playoff-free as the one he’d inherited.The Lakers succeeded in stockpiling talent — including the franchise-altering signing of LeBron James — but failed in putting together complementary pieces, or attracting the second major star Johnson openly said he was chasing.[Magic Johnson stunned the basketball world by suddenly stepping down on Tuesday.]Here’s a look back at Johnson’s high and low points while running the team.In February 2017, four seasons into the team’s longest-ever playoff drought, the Lakers reshuffled their front office by firing the general manager, Mitch Kupchak, and installing Johnson as its president. Less than a month later, Rob Pelinka, a longtime agent, was hired as the general manager, reporting to Johnson.Officially and unofficially, Johnson had remained tied to the team since he retired in 1996. He owned a share of the team from 1994 to 2010, and after that he was an honorary vice president — a title the team took away from him after he violated the league’s tampering rules by tweeting about free agents.Three weeks before he was hired in his new role, he had returned to the Lakers as an adviser to Jeanie Buss, the team’s president and co-owner. She would soon clean house while promoting Johnson.“Everyone associated with the Lakers will now be pulling in the same direction, the direction established by Earvin and myself,” she said, using Johnson’s given name. “We are determined to get back to competing to win N.B.A. championships again.”The first major test of the new regime had decidedly mixed results.Days before the draft, Johnson shed the costly contract of Timofey Mozgov by giving up on D’Angelo Russell, whom the team had selected second over all just two years earlier. In return for the duo, the Brooklyn Nets gave up Brook Lopez and the 27th pick in the draft, which turned into the promising Kyle Kuzma. But Russell has blossomed this year with the Nets, earning an All-Star appearance while leading Brooklyn back to the playoffs.Russell’s departure opened the point guard spot for Lonzo Ball, who has flashed two-way potential but largely fallen short of his lofty expectations as the second pick in the draft. In addition to Kuzma, the Lakers struck gold with Josh Hart, who was selected 30th and has become a core piece.Johnson made no secret of his intent to draw the game’s biggest stars to Los Angeles, with an eye toward what was expected to be a major 2018 off-season. The team largely punted on the 2017 off-season to preserve its salary cap space in 2018, signing Kentavious Caldwell-Pope to a one-year deal.At the 2018 trade deadline, the Lakers shed the contracts of Jordan Clarkson and Larry Nance Jr., opening more cap space. Johnson said the trade indicated the Lakers would have the cap space and the ability to land two star players, either by trade or free agency.“I wouldn’t have made the move if I wasn’t confident,” he said at the time.Signing LeBron James to a long-term contract in 2018 was exactly the kind of result the Lakers had planned for and needed, setting expectations that they would return to the playoffs and compete for a championship. But the free agents the Lakers signed to surround him — Caldwell-Pope, Rajon Rondo, Lance Stephenson, JaVale McGee and Michael Beasley — immediately puzzled some observers.An optimist would have called them playoff-tested veterans. Others saw it differently: A cast of nonshooters and big personalities who would have a questionable fit next to James and the Lakers’ young talent.The hodgepodge crew was assembled partly because the team struck out on its bigger targets. After years of speculation that Paul George would return to his hometown, he instead opted to re-sign with Oklahoma City. The San Antonio Spurs sent Kawhi Leonard east to the Toronto Raptors. DeMarcus Cousins signed a bargain, one-year deal with the Golden State Warriors.Once the season arrived, the Lakers blew it in dramatic fashion, extending their record playoff drought. But they preserved cap space for the 2019 off-season, giving them another chance to add a star.There could be little doubt the Lakers would be interested in Anthony Davis as soon as he became available. James and Davis share an agent, and the Lakers were long believed to be Davis’s most committed suitor.But when the All-Star center made a public trade request in late January, he created a debacle for Johnson and the Lakers. The players in the Lakers’ young core — Ball, Kuzma, Hart and Brandon Ingram, the second overall pick from the 2016 draft — were constantly named in leaked trade offers.The Pelicans made an effort to head off any potential tampering when they announced Davis’s trade request. “We have also requested the League to strictly enforce the tampering rules associated with this transaction,” the team said in a statement.In addition to Davis’s connections to the Lakers, Los Angeles had a well-known history of tampering, dating back to Johnson’s tweets before he took over.Johnson was not very subtle about recruiting George during a 2017 appearance on “Jimmy Kimmel Live,” during which he was asked what he would do if he saw the player socially.“We’re going to say hi because we know each other, you just can’t say, ‘Hey, I want you to come to the Lakers,’ even though I’ll be wink-winking like, ‘You know what that means, right?’ ”The episode earned Johnson a warning from the N.B.A., and the team was later fined $500,000 for what the league deemed impermissible contact between Pelinka and George’s agent.In June 2018, Johnson was fined $50,000 for his comments about Giannis Antetokounmpo after praising the Bucks star.In February, the Sixers’ Ben Simmons — who plays as an oversize point guard, like Johnson did — requested a meeting with Johnson to get playing tips, prompting Johnson to publicly praise the former Rookie of the Year. But the league ultimately determined Johnson had not broken tampering rules.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Howard MegdalThe hiring of the W.N.B.A. point guard Kristi Toliver as a full-time assistant coach with the N.B.A.’s Washington Wizards while she is still an active player was widely applauded as a notable new achievement for women in coaching.It followed the San Antonio Spurs’ hiring of Becky Hammon, and other women like Nancy Lieberman and Jenny Boucek also joining N.B.A. coaching staffs.“With anything, you need to see it to be it,” said Briann January, a guard for the Phoenix Mercury and, in her off-season, an assistant women’s basketball coach at Arizona State. “I see it now because of Becky. Because of Kristi. I see the opportunity that is out there to take that next step in this professional area.”For many players, the moves showed N.B.A. teams tapping into a longstanding, significant pipeline of female talent.“I think a lot of women in general are missing out on a lot of good opportunities in which we can be extremely beneficial to any team, to any organization, no matter our gender,” said Alana Beard, a veteran Los Angeles Sparks guard often mentioned as a coaching candidate by her peers.Beard cited the meager pay Toliver is to receive this season — just $10,000 because of limits in the W.N.B.A.’s collective bargaining agreement — as an “extremely important” issue for the league to address in negotiations for a new agreement. The goal would be making a barrier that has long been permeable on one side — men into women’s basketball on the coaching side — into a free exchange of talent, regardless of gender, based on opportunity.Many, if not most, W.N.B.A. players, who are paid significantly less than their male counterparts, cannot afford to spend their off-season working for so little pay. Their basketball skills are worth much more — into the millions of dollars — in service of women’s leagues overseas.“All of those things on a coach’s plate to take care of, to do that for $10,000 for an entire N.B.A. season is crazy,” January said. “I’d like to break that down and do the math, like how much that is a game or how much that is a day. That would just be insult to injury.”Yet some people, including commentators on internet sites and men’s basketball fans in real life, contend these women should be happy to have opportunities at all.This attitude rankles many W.N.B.A. players — that even Toliver’s shot, let alone chances for other women with considerable experience playing and in many cases coaching, is often thought of as a one-sided benefit for those who are hired.But in many cases, the N.B.A. came calling after seeing the women excelling on their own. Toliver’s work with the Mystics helped bring her to the attention of Wizards Coach Scott Brooks, just as Hammon got her opportunity in San Antonio because she was employed by the Silver Stars, then owned by the same group as the Spurs, and her W.N.B.A. coach, Dan Hughes, talked her up to Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich.“I had a chance to put two parties together that I knew would work,” Hughes, now the head coach of the Seattle Storm, said. “I knew Becky, and I also knew Pop, and I knew that Pop, we had a lot of years of conversation about Becky. He had seen her play when I first brought her to San Antonio. So to me it was an opportunity to merge two people that would benefit from each other.”Toliver has opened up that discussion in significant ways, which she said was a large part of her reasoning for taking the job in the first place. In Hughes’s eyes, it is nothing less than the overdue elimination of whatever combination of sexism and inertia has prevented the men’s basketball world from taking advantage of all the talent amassed on the women’s side of the sport, the next step toward N.B.A. teams and W.N.B.A. teams and men’s and women’s college basketball programs all hiring from the same pool of candidates.As Hughes sees it, it’s time, not because these women deserve a chance, but because every basketball team needs more coaches like Hammon, Toliver and those who will follow.“I want a world someday where people judge coaches on how good a coach they truly are,” Hughes said. “Doesn’t matter if they’re male or female, doesn’t matter their background. They can say he’s a coach or she’s a coach, and we can use them.”Every W.N.B.A. player who stays home instead of playing overseas in her off-season, the athletes said, is potentially one more person around which to promote the league year-round, and that player gets to rest, too. The grind of playing 12 months a year has led to W.N.B.A. players like Diana Taurasi and Angel McCoughtry taking seasons off.“You always want to protect your product,” January said. “And the majority of our product is being run down and beaten up year-round playing this game. So when they come back around to play in the W.N.B.A., you have half of your players injured, playing through nagging things. We still find a way to have a high talent and high level of basketball, which is crazy to me.“We just have some really strong women, but that needs to be a discussion. What can we do to provide other opportunities for women to make income and prepare for the future on a real-life scale? Something they can live on. Something that makes sense.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The evolution of Giannis Antetokounmpo into a global star has been playing out for six seasons. It manifests in soaring dunks, or blocked shots from the weak side that defy logic, or wraparound passes to an open shooter, or crossover dribbles that leave defenders reeling in his impossibly long-limbed wake.But Pat Connaughton, a reserve guard, did not have the opportunity to witness Antetokounmpo’s feats on a daily basis until last summer, when he signed with the Milwaukee Bucks and joined his new teammates for scrimmages ahead of training camp.“You’d see him do something ridiculous, and I’d be looking around and nobody would be reacting,” Connaughton recalled. “Like, ‘Did you guys not just see that?’”For the players who have been around Antetokounmpo the longest, there may be an element of genius fatigue at work — not that they take him for granted. Malcolm Brogdon, a third-year guard, tried to provide some context for Connaughton at one of those early scrimmages.“You’ll get used to it after a while,” Brogdon told him. “It happens all the time.”Antetokounmpo, 24, has turned the sublime into the routine. But the novelty has not worn off for N.B.A. fans, who have made him appointment viewing this season, and the Bucks have shaped themselves into contenders by following his lead. On top of that, nearly two years after Kobe Bryant, the retired Los Angeles Lakers guard, challenged Antetokounmpo to win the league’s Most Valuable Player Award, he may be on the verge of upending the Eastern Conference to do so.“Everything you see about him or hear about him is how hard he works,” Lakers Coach Luke Walton said, “and how great he wants to be.”The Bucks improved their league-best record to 48-14 after coming from behind to defeat the Lakers on Friday night at Staples Center. Antetokounmpo, who has been dealing with right knee soreness, finished with 16 points and 15 rebounds in the Bucks’ 131-120 win, which qualified as a quiet effort for him. But he had his moments.Early in the fourth quarter, he sized up Mike Muscala, his 6-foot-11 defender, at the top of the perimeter. He took a couple of hard dribbles into the paint, threw his right shoulder into Muscala to knock him off balance, then dunked over him with his left hand.“He draws so much attention,” Bucks Coach Mike Budenholzer said.It was a play that helped ignite the Bucks, who enjoyed an eventful day. After point guard Eric Bledsoe agreed to a four-year, $70 million contract extension in the afternoon, he roasted the Lakers for a season-high 31 points. In addition, Pau Gasol was expected to join the team after securing a buyout from the San Antonio Spurs.“Unbelievable guy,” Antetokounmpo said of Gasol. “He’s been to the finals. He has so much experience. I think he’s definitely going to help us.”The Bucks are readying for a playoff run with Antetokounmpo as their focal point. Entering their game against the Utah Jazz on Saturday night, Antetokounmpo was averaging 26.8 points, 12.6 rebounds and 5.9 assists while shooting 57.9 percent from the field.“When the season started, we knew we had something special — we had a great team,” he said. “But to be honest with you, no, I never thought we were going to have the best record in the N.B.A.“But I think we’ve worked hard for it, we go out there and show up for every game, and we try to win every game.”There is no apt historical comparison for Antetokounmpo because the league has never seen anyone quite like him. He is too long and too strong, too quick and too skilled, a 6-foot-11 power forward who can defend point guards at one end and post up the league’s stoutest centers at the other. As for Antetokounmpo’s unique athleticism, Connaughton considers him to be something of a hybrid of Kevin Durant of the Golden State Warriors and LeBron James of the Lakers.“He’s got the length of K.D.,” Connaughton said, “but now he’s at the point where he’s got the strength of LeBron — or at least he’s on that trajectory. And that speaks volumes about his work ethic and his desire to be the best that he can be. Because not a lot of guys with that talent work that hard.”Connaughton, whose playing time has fluctuated this season, often goes to the team’s practice facility on off days for extra shooting and conditioning work. Antetokounmpo, Connaughton said, is always there, too. He is a gym rat in the second year of a four-year, $100 million contract. Connaughton joined the Bucks after three seasons with the Portland Trail Blazers, and he said Antetokounmpo plays with the same motor — the same mind-set — as Damian Lillard, the Blazers’ All-Star point guard.“Obviously Dame is a different player, but I think they share an inner desire,” Connaughton said. “It has nothing to do with the outside. It has nothing to do with the media, the attention or the press. Like, they’re in it for their own reasons — the right reasons, in my opinion.”Whenever Budenholzer is asked about it, which is often these days, he makes a compelling case for Antetokounmpo as the N.B.A.’s most valuable player — and he cites his defense as Exhibit A. Antetokounmpo is so dynamic on offense, Budenholzer said, that it tends to overshadow everything else is does. Sure enough, he had three blocked shots against the Lakers.Antetokounmpo is not going to create headlines with bold predictions — after Friday’s win, he repeated familiar mantras about taking it “day by day” and continuing to “work hard” — but the Bucks must be thinking big. All around them, powerhouse teams are struggling. Even the Warriors, the two-time defending champions, have had issues.Few thought the Bucks would be this good this quickly, but everyone was saying the same thing about Antetokounmpo when he entered the league at age 19. Suddenly, the future is now.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Kennard scored 27 points off the bench and the postseason-bound Detroit Pistons closed out their regular season finale by walloping the host New York Knicks 115-89 on Wednesday.The Pistons (41-41) qualified for the Eastern Conference playoffs for just the second time since the 2009-10 season. They were swept by Cleveland in the opening round of the 2015-16 playoffs.Detroit will be the No. 8 seed and face top-seeded Milwaukee in the first round.Kennard's point total was one shy of his career high. Reggie Jackson had 21 points and Andre Drummond supplied 20 points and 18 rebounds for Detroit. Wayne Ellington tossed in 12 points, all on 3-point makes.Heat 113, Nets 94Dwyane Wade ended his storied career with a triple-double of 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists as visiting Miami was dealt a loss to Brooklyn, which clinched sixth place in the Eastern Conference.The Nets honored Wade with a video tribute in pregame introductions by highlighting some of his notable shots against them over the course of a 16-year career while the text on the screen read "Thanks for the Memories."With longtime friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony sitting courtside, Wade recorded his fifth career triple-double in his 1,054th regular-season game since entering the league as the fifth overall pick out of Marquette in 2003.Spurs 105, Mavericks 94LaMarcus Aldridge poured in 34 points and totaled 16 rebounds to help propel San Antonio to a resounding win over visiting Dallas in the regular-season finale for both teams.It was also the final game in the 21-year career of Dallas forward Dirk Nowitzki, who led Dallas with 20 points and pulled down 10 rebounds in 31 minutes of play before leaving the court for the final time with 47 seconds remaining.The win was San Antonio's third straight and -- combined with Oklahoma City's win over Milwaukee -- earned the Spurs the seventh seed in the NBA playoffs, where they will face the Denver Nuggets. Dallas, playing the second game of an emotional home-road back-to-back, had a two-game winning streak snapped and they will miss the postseason for the third straight season.Trail Blazers 136, Kings 131Rookie Anfernee Simons scored a season-high 37 points to lift Portland to a come-from-behind victory over visiting Sacramento.Skal Labissiere added 29 points and 15 rebounds for the Trail Blazers, who trailed by as many as 28 points in the first half.Jake Layman, Meyers Leonard and Gary Trent Jr. scored 19 points apiece for Portland (53-29), which gained the No. 3 seed in the Western Conference and will face No. 6 Oklahoma City (49-33) in the first round of the playoffs.Nuggets 99, Timberwolves 95Jamal Murray hit a go-ahead 3-pointer with 31.5 seconds left, and host Denver scored the final 15 points of the game to beat Minnesota to earn the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference.Nikola Jokic finished with 29 points and 14 rebounds and Murray scored 17 for Denver. The Nuggets (54-28) will play the San Antonio Spurs in the first round of the playoffs.Andrew Wiggins scored 25 points, Gorgui Dieng had 18 points and 11 rebounds and Cameron Reynolds added 19 points off the bench for the short-handed Timberwolves (36-46).Clippers 143, Jazz 137 (OT)With their respective playoff spots locked, Los Angeles and Utah ended their regular seasons in overtime, where the Clippers won to end a three-game losing streak.Montrezl Harrell scored 24 points to lead the Clippers. Ivica Zubac added 22 points and 11 rebounds and Lou Williams scored 15 off the bench.Utah rookie Grayson Allen scored a career-high 40 points and Georges Niang scored a career-best 24 off the bench.Thunder 127, Bucks 116Dennis Schroder scored 32 points to help Oklahoma City earn the No. 6 seed in the Western Conference with a win at Milwaukee.The Bucks, who had already sealed the top seed in the Eastern Conference coming into the game, sat three starters -- Giannis Antetokounmpo, Eric Bledsoe and Brook Lopez -- to rest them for the playoffs.Milwaukee (60-22) will start the playoffs against the eighth-seeded Detroit Pistons (41-41). The Thunder (49-33) will open the playoffs against the third-seeded Portland Trail Blazers (53-29).Pacers 135, Hawks 134Edmond Sumner made three free throws with 0.3 seconds remaining to lift Indiana to a road win over Atlanta in the final regular-season game for both teams.Atlanta finished the season with a 29-53 record while Indiana (48-34) heads into the playoffs winners of only four of its last 13 games.The fifth-place Pacers will oppose the fourth-place Boston Celtics (49-33) in the first round of the Eastern Conference postseason.Magic 122, Hornets 114Terrence Ross came off the bench to score a season-high 35 points, and playoff-bound Orlando ended Charlotte's season.Ross scored 19 of his points in the first half, when the Magic led by as many as 13. He finished 12 of 19 from the field and 6 of 10 from 3-point range. Ross' performance overshadowed a 43-point explosion by Charlotte's Kemba Walker in the defeat.The Magic (42-40) remained the No. 7 seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs with the victory, and will face second-seeded Toronto in the first round of the playoffs.Grizzlies 132, Warriors 117Memphis dizzied visiting Golden State in the regular-season finale for both teams, parlaying a remarkable 86-point first half into a shocking win.The loss had no bearing on the playoff seeding for the Warriors (57-25). The two-time defending champions enter the postseason as the top seed in the Western Conference and they will open the playoffs against the No. 8 seed, the Los Angeles Clippers, who defeated the Utah Jazz, 143-137, in overtime Wednesday.The win allowed the Grizzlies (33-49) to avoid what would have been a second straight season of at least 50 losses. Rookie Jevon Carter scored 19 of his career-high 32 points in the first half, when the Grizzlies ran off to an 86-68 lead.76ers 125, Bulls 109Jonathon Simmons scored 20 points and Boban Marjanovic added 18 to lift host Philadelphia over Chicago.T.J. McConnell tied his career-high with 18, Zhaire Smith contributed 17 and Greg Monroe had 14 for the Sixers, who completed their regular season with a 51-31 record and the No. 3 playoff seed in the Eastern Conference. The Sixers finished 31-10 at home.The Sixers were extremely short-handed as numerous key players were held out for precautionary reasons as the playoffs are about to begin. All-Star center Joel Embiid, All-Star guard Ben Simmons, guard JJ Redick, forward Jimmy Butler and forward Tobias Harris were all held out.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byHofstra won 16 straight games and a guard named Justin Wright-Foreman emerged as a star. Someone tell the student body.By Adam ZagoriaThe University of Tennessee is the top-ranked team in men’s college basketball. The Volunteers have won 16 consecutive games, the longest active winning streak in the country — but only because Hofstra, on Long Island, got upset by Northeastern on Saturday.That is not a misprint. From late November until the second day of February, the Hofstra Pride did not lose a game, and almost no one noticed. When a program like Duke or Kentucky wins 16 games in a row, the team is featured on ESPN’s “SportsCenter” every night and makes the cover of Sports Illustrated. When the Hofstra Pride win 16 games in a row, they are lucky if their fellow students even know about it. That was not entirely their fault; Hofstra’s winter break ran from mid-December until the end of January, so students weren’t on the Long Island campus for six home games. Still, Hofstra’s average home attendance this season is 1,720. The lack of attention has had little effect on how the team experienced the streak, though, or its determination to begin another one. When the streak finally came to an end Saturday with the defeat in Boston, Hofstra Coach Joe Mihalich watched the tape of the 75-61 loss twice on the four-hour bus ride back to Long Island. “As I said to the team, ‘If everyone looks in the mirror and says, what could I have done better?, then we’ll get better,” Mihalich, 62, said Sunday. “It was great. It was fun. We enjoyed the ride. But it’s not the end all and be all.”Hofstra, which plays in the Colonial Athletic Association, has not been to the N.C.A.A. Tournament since 2001. Because the C.A.A. generally receives only one bid, the Pride (19-4) most likely will have to win the conference tournament in Charleston, S.C., next month just to qualify. Winning streaks, even long ones, usually aren’t enough to sway the selection committee when it hands out the at-large spots. Hofstra’s hopes to win its way in largely rest with a 6-foot-2 senior guard from Queens, Justin Wright-Foreman, who gave serious consideration to transferring away from the university after scoring a total of 44 points during his freshman year.Wright-Foreman had expected a bigger role coming into college. Then he averaged only 4.1 minutes a game for a team that won the C.A.A. regular-season title, lost in the conference championship game and qualified for the National Invitation Tournament.“I was kind of a big baby when I was a freshman and I wanted everything to happen right now,” Wright-Foreman said. He spoke to his mother, Janice Wright; his uncle; and to the Hofstra assistant coach Craig Claxton, a former Pride star known as Speedy before deciding to stay. The decision, he said, was in part to remain close to his ailing grandmother and his three younger brothers. His mother’s message? “Everything is going to get better in due time.”Now Wright-Foreman is averaging 25.5 points a game, third-best in Division 1, and 4.6 rebounds and 3.3 assists. He has reached double figures in scoring in 76 consecutive game and is now 35 points shy of 2,000 for his career. N.B.A. scouts have begun to chatter about him, turning up at Hofstra games even when others do not.“He scored 44 points as a freshman, he scored 42 points in a game this year,” Mihalich said, referring to a Wright-Foreman outing that he capped with a buzzer-beating 3-pointer in the final seconds of a 75-72 home win over Northeastern on Jan. 5.He is not a one-man show, though. The junior guard Eli Pemberton is averaging 15.5 points and 4.9 rebounds, and the senior point guard Desure Buie averages 10.2 points and 5.0 assists.Still, the crowds at Hofstra have been a far cry from the days when ticket scalpers sold tickets to see Claxton play in the late 1990s. Back then, Hofstra was in the America East Conference, and Claxton was on his way to the N.B.A.“I don’t think the community has embraced us like that yet, and it’s a shame because they’re not going to get to see a really talented kid play,” said Claxton, who helped lead Hofstra to the N.C.A.A. Tournament in 2000 and later won an N.B.A. championship with the San Antonio Spurs. “I mean, we only have four more home games, and they really missed out.”Wright-Foreman and his teammates don’t seem bothered by the lack of attention. “We’re just more focused on what’s going on in this moment now,” Wright-Foreman said. “We just want to win a lot of games.Hofstra’s success hasn’t gone completely unnoticed; the former Hofstra coach Jay Wright, now a national-title winner at Villanova, talked up his old team after a recent win.“I’m loving it,” Wright told reporters. “Watching every game, man.”Wright also texted Mihalich, saying, “Our entire family always follows HU — keep up the great work! Proud of you!”While Wright-Forman’s teammates bonded this past summer over Monopoly games in a dormitory lounge that involved as many as seven players, Wright-Foreman was often in the gym working on his game.Mihalich called Wright-Foreman an N.B.A.-level scorer. “Is he an N.B.A. defender? Probably not,” he said. “Is he an N.B.A. rebounder? No. But he’s an N.B.A. scorer.”Claxton said that he sees parallels between this team and the 1999-00 Hofstra team that made the N.C.A.A. Tournament; each, he said, had a star complemented by those around him.Wright-Foreman is just glad he stayed around long enough to experience it. The streak may be over, but there’s a chance to start a new one on Thursday.“I’m happy I was able to mature enough and just tell myself that this is where I need to be and I’m just going to work as hard as I can,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alex WongNathaniel Butler has been an N.B.A. senior photographer since 1984. Those were the days of shooting on film and developing photos in hotel rooms after games. Today, players text Butler as they arrive at the arena so he can be in position to capture a perfect arena entrance shot for them to post on Instagram.The job isn’t what it used to be.When Andrew D. Bernstein became an official N.B.A. photographer in 1986, he was continually thwarted in his attempts to get his camera into in-game huddles to capture the interactions between players and coaches. Pat Riley, who was the coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, made sure to obscure all viewpoints.Halfway through the season, Riley asked Bernstein why he wanted to be in the huddle. People want to see what’s happening on the inside, Bernstein told Riley, who agreed to give Bernstein a chance. If you screw up, Riley said, you are never coming back.More than three decades later, Bernstein is still photographing N.B.A. players, huddles and pretty much whatever he pleases as the league’s longest tenured senior photographer.Photographers have long played a critical role in shaping narratives in a league defined by faces and moments. The most iconic posters are the finished works of the photographers who position themselves along the baseline each game, often contorting their bodies and forgetting about personal comfort to get closer and take countless snaps, in hopes of capturing a masterpiece.In today’s N.B.A., they allow players to use those photographs as building blocks for their social media profiles. They have adapted to an ever-changing digital world that has presented new opportunities and a whole new set of challenges.On game day, Butler uses a combination of tethered remotes and custom phone apps to operate any number of cameras in an arena.He sends photographs to a team of editors in Secaucus, N.J., with the press of a button. In seconds, they can be published on the league’s official social media feeds and reach millions of people around the world.Despite the technological advances, shooting an N.B.A. game can be more difficult than one would think. “A basketball game is a complex situation,” said Bruce Ely, the lead photographer of the Portland Trail Blazers. “There are a lot of moving parts.”Like a fan’s arms waving across the frame just as Damian Lillard makes a 3-pointer. Or the leg of another player sneaking into the edge of the image, ruining a portrait. Another time, it might be a referee walking into a perfect shot.Despite the challenges, some N.B.A. photographers do not consider it their most difficult assignment. Nelson Campana, who photographs the Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team, regularly shoots weddings as well. The pressure of game night is nothing compared with the responsibility of chronicling a couple’s special day.“You have one night to make it right,” Campana said. “There’s a list of things you need to get, and you don’t get another chance. At a basketball game, you’re just hoping things happen.”Some nights, there is too much happening at the same time. As the Oklahoma City Thunder eliminated the San Antonio Spurs in the 2016 playoffs, Butler had to make a split-second decision about what to photograph at the buzzer. He focused on Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook embracing, and then got a shot of Durant with Tim Duncan. He stayed with Durant afterward, but that meant missing a chance to capture Duncan walking off an N.B.A. court for the final time.“Ideally,” Butler said, “I would like to be in two places at one time.”While some players enjoy being on the other side of these photographers’ lenses, others say it is an adjustment. Aaron Gordon of the Orlando Magic first remembers being in front of a camera as a high schooler being interviewed after winning a basketball tournament.“You have to live in a way where you’re O.K. with being seen,” Gordon said. “You’re always being watched these days.”Because so many photos are being taken, players have to accept that they can control only so much of what is shared online.“You want to nitpick every single picture,” said John Collins, a second-year forward with the Atlanta Hawks. “But it just can’t work that way. You can’t read everything about yourself and see every photo of yourself.”To take more control over their visual narratives on social media, players are working with photographers to shoot them outside basketball arenas.Cassy Athena is a professional photographer who has earned the trust of players around the league. Last season, at All-Star Weekend in Los Angeles, Athena followed Stephen Curry and his wife, Ayesha, for the entire weekend. She was also invited by Indiana Pacers guard Victor Oladipo to shoot him at New York Fashion Week in 2018.Athena says it takes time to convince certain players of the value of her photographs.“It’s not so much they don’t understand the importance of the moment,” she said. “It’s convincing them why they should share it with the world. When it clicks, you get guys who might not be the best N.B.A. player, but they use this” — meaning Instagram and professional photos — “to build their own brand and further their careers.”Older, more established players worry less about their online persona but more about how the images carry a nostalgic value as their careers wind down.“What photographers do may seem minute,” said Vince Carter, 42, who just ended his 21st season in the league. “But I’ve seen so many shots of the best moments of my career, and in some ways, they’ve helped me remember those moments.”Many of these iconic images can now be seen on the Instagram pages of the photographers themselves. Bernstein said he was the last guy dragged kicking and screaming into the social media era. He now enjoys posting classic pictures for Throwback Thursday.Butler adds watermarks to the photographs he posts on his feed because other accounts and publications will often publish them without giving him credit. But he recognizes the value of being online. “It opens you up to a whole other audience,” Butler said.The rise of social media accounts means there are now more photographers at N.B.A. games. Butler prefers to use a camera lens that does not require him to be right in the face of players to capture them up close. In the modern era, he has noticed a lot of camera phones being shoved into players’ faces.“There’s an etiquette that doesn’t exist anymore,” Butler said. “Not just in sports, but in society.”Even though photographers want to capture every moment, some also realize that there are boundaries. A few months ago, Kyrie Irving and Durant had a private conversation at All-Star Weekend in Charlotte, N.C., which was captured on film. It was circulated online, and many believed the two were discussing their heavily rumored plans to join the Knicks together this summer.“If I was a player, that would bother me,” Butler said. “You don’t have to document every second of their existence.”Bernstein had a similar decision to make more than 30 years ago, during the 1988 N.B.A. finals, when he walked through the Lakers’ locker room after a loss and found Magic Johnson and Michael Cooper with their uniforms on, dejected as the showers were running around them.It was a one-of-a-kind moment, but Bernstein opted against taking the photograph.“That was their time,” Bernstein said. “That didn’t need to be documented. I have that picture in my mind, and that’s enough.”An earlier version of this article described Nelson Campana’s job incorrectly. He photographs the Toronto Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team; he is not the team photographer.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Malik Monk is learning. It might be his favorite word. He says he is learning from Tony Parker and Kemba Walker. He says he is learning to defend “grown men” who know the tricks of the trade. He says he is learning to vary his pace when he comes off the bench for the Charlotte Hornets, because he does not need to dial it up to flambé all the time.“You have to know when to speed up and when to slow down,” said Monk, a 6-foot-3 shooting guard, “and I’m still learning.”Monk, 20, did not anticipate that his first two seasons in the N.B.A. would be so challenging, not after he was the Southeastern Conference player of the year in his only season at Kentucky and the 11th overall pick in the 2017 draft. He is no less confident in his abilities than he once was, but he is definitely less naïve.“I thought it would be way smoother,” he said in an interview on Tuesday before the Hornets played the Clippers at Staples Center. “I thought I was going to play right away when I first got here. I thought I was going to play right away this year, too. But it’s been a lot of ups and downs.”His growing pains are not unique to second-year players. But there may be more organizational urgency with Monk given the Hornets’ uncertain future. Walker, their All-Star point guard and the face of the franchise, is due for unrestricted free agency this summer, and he needs more talent around him for the Hornets to be a contender. Perhaps Monk will be a part of that equation, but the clock is ticking — and it still requires some imagination to envision the player he could become.Monk, though, offers flashes, and some of them came against the Clippers: the 36 seconds of game action he required to take and make his first 3-pointer, his running floater on the following possession, even his pyrotechnic offense in garbage time. He finished with 24 points in 21 minutes in a 128-109 loss.“He’s an explosive scorer,” said James Borrego, the team’s first-year coach.As the Hornets (19-21) grapple for a playoff spot, Monk is averaging 10.8 points in 18.9 minutes a game while shooting 39.7 percent from the field. While he needs to become a more proficient shooter, he has more pronounced limitations on defense, where he is on the small side for a shooting guard and lacks the savvy of many of the (bigger, more experienced) players he is trying to defend.“Man, if you’re a second late, it’s over with,” Monk said. “You can recover in college. In college, you can hide in a zone, too. But here, you get exposed. Everybody’s so good.”At Kentucky, Monk teamed up in the backcourt with De’Aaron Fox, another immensely talented freshman who declared for the 2017 draft. Fox went fifth to the Sacramento Kings, and he has excelled this season, averaging 18 points and 7.3 assists a game while shooting 47.4 percent from the field. He starts. He plays loads of minutes. And he gets a lot of attention.Monk and Fox are on a group chat with a couple of other former teammates at Kentucky, Monk said, and they message one another all the time. Monk roots for Fox — “I tell him, ‘Keep killing, Fox,’ ” Monk said — but he cannot help noting the opportunity that Fox has gotten, and how much he has made of it.“If you get down on yourself, that’s going to mess everything up,” Monk said. “So I just try to stay positive. You have to be patient, man. Patience.”Borrego benched Monk for two games last month — the coach was frustrated with the team’s defense — but said on Tuesday that he was pleased with Monk’s progress.“He’s just got to be more consistent on the defensive end,” Borrego said, “and we’re seeing that growth.”Monk’s minutes, though, have been sporadic — much as they were last season under Steve Clifford, who now coaches the Orlando Magic — and he said he was learning to adapt. Everyone wants to start, he said, but maybe he was meant to come off the bench and develop into an elite scorer like Lou Williams or Jamal Crawford, two players who have turned their reserve roles into art forms. Or maybe, Monk said, his career will take a different turn.“There are always teams watching,” Monk said. “So, I mean, if this is not your spot, it might be somewhere else, and there’s always somebody watching — and it’s probably somebody that likes you. So you’ve got to go out there and do stuff for you and for your team. If you do both of those things together, you’ll be all right.”Asked if he was happy in Charlotte, Monk said: “I’m playing basketball. So, yeah, I’m learning, and I’m watching the best every night. If you’re not happy doing this, I don’t know why you came to the N.B.A. So me playing or not, I’m still going to learn, I’m still going to smile, and I’m still going to be who I am. So I’m glad I’m in this situation.”In their locker room at Spectrum Center, where the Hornets play their home games, Monk sits between Parker, already a legend from his days with the San Antonio Spurs, and Marvin Williams, a power forward in his 14th season. Both are consummate pros, and Monk suspects that the locker room layout was no accident.“He’s very coachable,” Williams said. “He wants to learn, and he wants to be really good.”Borrego described Parker as something of a big brother to Monk whenever they are on the court together with the team’s second unit.“A lot of times Malik feels like a wild stallion,” Borrego said, “and Tony’s out there trying to keep him calmed down.”For Monk, the lessons never stop. Michael Jordan, the team’s owner, delivered another last month when he smacked Monk on the head for prematurely celebrating a win against the Detroit Pistons. Jordan was being playful. Monk clearly cared, and that alone is worth something.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinIn a wholly unforeseen span of about 20 seconds Sunday night, viewers of the Academy Awards were exposed to an impromptu bit of sports-radio banter inspired by the faraway N.B.A.Yet it was the sort of back-and-forth, however brief, that makes the league truly uncomfortable.On what would soon become the most successful evening of Spike Lee’s professional life, Samuel L. Jackson announced from the Dolby Theater stage in Los Angeles that Lee’s beloved Knicks had beaten the San Antonio Spurs at Madison Square Garden to halt a franchise-record home losing streak at 18 consecutive defeats.Lee, who was moments away from winning his first competitive Oscar, appeared to mouth back to Jackson that the Knicks were “trying to tank” — N.B.A.-speak for teams that seek to improve their position in the draft as much as possible through rampant losing.Spike Lee: "WE'RE TRYING TO TANK" pic.twitter.com/zMXArdVPr0In truth, nothing the Knicks could do — even winning — could diminish the occasion for Lee. The Knicks’ most famous fan won the Oscar that had eluded him for more than 30 years and surely knew as well as anyone that one measly victory, even over the Spurs and their decorated coach, Gregg Popovich, wouldn’t knock the team too far off course in its shameless bid to finish at the bottom of the standings.But the exchange and ensuing waves of social media chatter shined the brightest of unwanted spotlights on a subject that N.B.A. officials undoubtedly wish would not have surfaced in this manner.For it is the public discourse that surrounds tanking — which inevitably leads to otherwise passionate fans like Lee openly wishing for their teams to lose — that has long been regarded at league headquarters as the most unsavory element of the practice.Tanking, in itself, can be a foolhardy strategy — especially in the wake of a procedural change this season. This is the first year since the inception of the N.B.A.’s draft lottery in 1985 that the teams holding the three lowest win totals will share flattened odds of 14 percent each of landing the No. 1 selection in June.Previously, the team with the worst record had a 25 percent chance of winning the top overall pick. But Commissioner Adam Silver’s push for so-called lottery reform has made it even tougher for the worst team in pro basketball — currently the Phoenix Suns, who, at 12-50, are a game behind the Knicks (12-48) — to win the right to (presumably) select the highly coveted Duke freshman Zion Williamson.If only there were clear measures to be taken to try to drown out the persistent tanking talk that seemingly (and loudly) swirls around every bad N.B.A. team. “Corrosive” is the word Silver used at his annual All-Star Weekend news conference in Charlotte, N.C., this month.“I personally don’t think it’s a winning strategy over the long term to engage in multiple years of rebuilding,” Silver said. “There’s a mind-set that, if you’re going to be bad, you might as well be really bad. I believe personally that’s corrosive for those organizations.”The Philadelphia 76ers are the rare franchise in position to differ. They amassed a load of lottery picks and other trade assets across a three-year window of intentional losing during the polarizing reign of their former general manager Sam Hinkie, who stepped down in April 2016 in response to a reduction in his authority over basketball matters before having the chance to reap the full benefits of all his team’s futility.Several of Hinkie’s high-profile draftees — Jahlil Okafor, Nerlens Noel and Dario Saric — fell well short of becoming the sort of fulcrums teams build around. Ditto for the 2017 No. 1 overall pick Markelle Fultz, who was drafted by Bryan Colangelo, Hinkie’s initial replacement. But the two selections who did become franchise players — Joel Embiid (by Hinkie) and Ben Simmons (two months after Hinkie’s exit) — now find themselves flanked by the former All-Star Jimmy Butler and a potential future All-Star in Tobias Harris. Butler and Harris arrived via trades that the Sixers’ new general manager, Elton Brand, was able to swing this season on the strength of the various trade chips Philadelphia had stockpiled under Hinkie.It is too early to say whether Silver’s lottery-reform crusade will actually quell further tanking attempts from teams pondering the Philadelphia model, but it has a chance. The flattened odds of winning the lottery mean that the Suns, Knicks and Cleveland Cavaliers, who currently comprise the bottom three teams, all face a daunting 86 percent chance that someone else wins the Zion Sweepstakes when the lottery is held May 14.One can safely assume that Lee and countless other Knicks fans will be shouting less flattering things as opposed to just mouthing them if all this losing they have endured this season leads to drafting someone other than Williamson.Since the Knicks are now linked with the 1993-94 Dallas Mavericks, having narrowly avoided breaking that team’s league record of 19 straight home losses with that unexpected triumph over San Antonio on Sunday, it is worth remembering what happened to the Mavericks that season.With Jamal Mashburn as their star rookie rather than Chris Webber or Penny Hardaway, after the Mavericks fell to the No. 4 overall pick the previous off-season despite boasting the highest odds of winning the draft lottery, they posted a 13-69 record.That is the type of cautionary tale that Silver, even as tanking talk persists, can forever serve up to discourage actual tanking: In the 34-year history of the lottery, only eight times has the team with the worst record managed to win the No. 1 pick.At least one Knicks fan in Hollywood finds the idea of tanking in professional sports to be “a horrible thing to even think about.” The actor Leon Robinson, who starred in “Above the Rim” and “Cool Runnings” and has made numerous appearances at The Garden this season, said in a phone interview Monday: “I’m never happy to see my team lose. I’m in The Garden — people go crazy every time they even get close to winning. Every time they’re losing, people are shaking their heads at halftime. So I’m confused. Why are you coming to the game?”Lee, however, is hardly alone in lusting after Williamson. It’s an open secret that the Knicks are dreaming of a mammoth free-agent coup this summer with the more than $70 million of salary-cap space they can clear; Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving are widely regarded as the Knicks’ top two targets. But make no mistake: The Knicks themselves, not just a segment of the fan base, are dreaming of Zion, too — no matter what history says.Given the immediate on-court impact one extremely gifted young man can have, in this five-on-five sport more than any other, it will probably always be thus.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellHOLBROOK, Ariz. — A wind that would not stop tugged at flags and sent sand devils spinning into this desert town as I walked past Mr. Maestas Restaurant and the Arizona Pawnman and the Empty Pockets Saloon and came to a rise and looked across an emptiness of plain that stretched the limits of vision.I recalled my talk a few days ago with Mike Budenholzer at the Ritz-Carlton in New York City. He coaches the Milwaukee Bucks, who finished the regular season with 60 wins and the best record in the N.B.A. His team features a brilliant Greek forward-guard-center named Giannis Antetokounmpo, Montenegrin and Turkish forwards, a Spanish center, and black and white players from corners rural and urban.He is known for his deft handling of diverse pro players. Where, I asked, did you pick up that skill?Let me tell you about my hometown, Holbrook, he said.Budenholzer, blue-eyed and middle-age, was once was a skinny, blond, teenage shooting guard in this old cattle and railway town. He starred on the Roadrunners basketball team at Holbrook High School alongside his boyhood friend B. J. Little, an African-American; a few Anglos; and a half-dozen Navajo boys who could run and pass all day and all night.“There’s no doubt in mind that my background there has helped me navigate life in the N.B.A.” Budenholzer said. “Growing up, you knew Navajo culture and black culture from Louisiana and Mexicans. I learned to foster the same sort of culture.”Holbrook comprises its own world, an isolated high desert city of 5,053 that sits on the southern lip of the Navajo Nation, which is the size of the Republic of Ireland. To the south lies the small Mormon town of Snowflake, and beyond that the forests and canyons of the White Mountain Apache Reservation, which is bigger than Delaware.Holbrook’s population is roughly 50 percent white and 50 percent Navajo, Hopi, Mexican and black. The city has long kept a dormitory for Navajo children whose parents want them to attend the well-regarded Holbrook High School. Founded in the 1880s, Holbrook was an outlaw-friendly habitat, and a sign on the South Side tends to underline this point: Bucket of Blood Street. Terrill’s Cottage Saloon once stood on this street, and more than a few cowpokes breathed their last there.Quite a few youngsters leave in search of better prospects. The city is tattered at the edges, a few buildings lie gape-toothed and abandoned, a motel stands vacant, and a single movie theater shows a single movie. But it’s a hospitable place, and the main drag, Navajo Boulevard, has Mexican restaurants and motels and Native American jewelry stores and a herd of giant plastic dinosaurs that signal proximity to Petrified Forest National Park.Budenholzer’s father, Vince, coached the basketball team and won a state championship in 1971 and was inducted into the state coaching hall of fame. At the time, Mike was an assistant to Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs. During a team visit to Phoenix, he told Popovich of his father’s ascent. When Vince showed up later that day, Popovich got down on a knee in the hotel and said, “Here is a real coach.”Father and son were two hoops tramps who traveled in school buses hundreds of miles across the empty quarter of Northern Arizona in search of games and wins.Vince’s Holbrook teams played a variation on the Native American hoops style known as Rez Ball: A quicksilver, sneaker-squeaking, run-pass-pass-shoot style, perfect for the Navajo and the Apache, for whom distance running is a millenniums-old tradition.“We pressed from the minute we stepped off the bus,” Vince said. ”I had one Navajo who was taller than 6 foot, and so what?”Vince is 89 and still lean in that way of an old athlete, and he and his wife, Libby, moved nine years ago to Queen Valley, in the cactus foothills of the Superstition Mountains, east of Phoenix. They miss Holbrook; it remains the home of their hearts, but the winters on that mile-high plateau ran them off. “The winds never stop blowing,” Libby said.The couple raised seven children, five boys and two girls, in a small house across Florida Street from Hunt Park. Libby became a councilwoman and served a term as mayor, and Vince moonlighted as Holbrook’s parks and recreation director during the summer. He built a hoop in his backyard and put up a floodlight so the teenagers could play into the evening.Little, Mike’s old teammate who is now a judge in nearby Winslow, drove me by that house, which was sold years back. The hoop still stood.“Oh man, we’d play there the whole night, and Vince would never stop coaching,” Little said. “My grandparents said I had to get home before the streetlights came on. But if I was playing ball with Mikey at the Budenholzers, that was my pass.”Father and son Budenholzer flashed hauntingly similar smiles when they recalled those days. Mike was the leading scorer on the Roadrunners, a kid who could shoot from near and far and almost as well with his left hand as his right. Little, whose grandparents came from Louisiana to work in the McNary Saw Mill, ripped rebounds, and the Navajo kids dribbled and ran and pressed.The day before the tournament, two of the best players got drunk. They were suspended, and that left the Roadrunners with one star: Mike Budenholzer. That was not enough horsepower, and the team lost. “It boggled my mind that they would get caught,” Mike said.“I think I would give up an N.B.A. championship to get that one back,” he said.I looked at him: You’re kidding, right? He shrugged. “I mean, winning a state championship in Arizona, that’s a big deal.”Navajo and Mexican and Anglo kids still play baseball, basketball and football and live more or less shoulder to shoulder. “It was a town where you played everything and with everyone else,” Mike said. “The only social rule you recognized in high school was that Mormon girls don’t date non-Mormons.”He shrugged. “So you adjust.”Budenholzer was a good student and got into Pomona College, a fine liberal arts institution in California. He was not yet sold. He was a jock and he wanted to play basketball and he already had a scholarship offer in hand.He visited Pomona and sat around with other students and listened as they talked of their choices. There was the kid who was weighing Williams College or Pomona, and another who was wait-listed at Stanford University. They looked at Budenholzer and asked, What about you?“I tell them I’m trying to choose between Pomona and Yavapai Community College, where I could get a free ride,” Budenholzer said. “And they were, like, ‘whaaaat?’ And I’m thinking, ‘What am I doing here, I’m in the wrong place.’ ”His brothers and sisters decided Mikey, the youngest, was going to Pomona. They pooled money as best they could so he could afford it. He graduated with a degree in philosophy and economics.Before he left Holbrook and set out on his life journey, Budenholzer did what he did every summer, which is to say he rounded up B. J. Little and other buddies and piled into a car and headed north to play in the informal spring tournaments that are a staple of life on the Navajo reservation. They drove across washes and around canyons and past red-ribbed buttes that reared like primeval monsters. They pulled into Navajo towns: Dilkon and Window Rock, Tuba City and Ganado, anywhere there was a tournament.They got caught up in endless Rez Ball games, running and shooting and banging one another from morning till late at night. As hoops is civic religion on the rez, crowds of hundreds watched and cheered, not least for the bilagaanas (Navajo for whites).“Those spring tournaments got rough, the referees were terrible and man, it was just the best,” Budenholzer said.During the season when reservation teams arrived to play Holbrook, a long line of cars would follow. The rule was straightforward for Holbrook’s fans, Vince said. Make it to the gym by 4 p.m. for a 7 p.m. game, or you could forget about finding a seat.It is not so different when Mike’s teams pull into Phoenix. After working as an assistant with the Spurs, he coached the Atlanta Hawks before coming to Milwaukee. Whenever his team plays the Phoenix Suns, Little’s sister sets to work organizing a Holbrook caravan. Dozens of cars wend their way down through ponderosa forests and jagged mountains to the game — whites, Mexicans, blacks and Navajos, sometimes 100 strong. After the game, Budenholzer talks with them.“It always moves me,” Mike says.It’s been a long time since he left home. This summer, after the N.B.A. playoffs and before the pro summer leagues begin, he and Vince and Libby plan to drive up through the Tonto National Forest and across the Salt River Canyon to Holbrook. And when they reach their old high school gym, they will find teammates and students and teachers and townspeople gathered to listen as Superintendent Robert Koerperich dedicates the Vince Budenholzer gym floor.“To let our kids know that you can come out of Holbrook and coach a pro team, how amazing is that?” Koeperich says.Mike Budenholzer looks forward to walking Navajo Boulevard and maybe seeing the family house again. Then he wants to stand behind Vince and Libby and clap so hard.“To have raised seven kids on a teacher’s salary in a great small town and let us interact and form great friendships with Navajos and Mexicans and blacks and Mormons. They were really ahead of their time,” Budenholzer said. “This is America.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Harvey AratonIf ever there has been an N.B.A. team that was entitled to tank, to deliberately lose for the mathematical calculation of draft lottery luck, it was this season’s Brooklyn Nets as they were on the night of Dec. 5.The latest in a series of harrowing defeats had left them with an 8-18 record, their best-performing player (Caris LeVert) down with a dislocated foot and little reason to believe there was much to strive for until the annual springtime game show known as the draft lottery.For a franchise that had disgorged its most recent lottery picks like T-shirts shot into a crowd, tanking for a high draft pick in an all-out pursuit of Zion Williamson, the supposed one-and-done savior from Duke, seemed like the classic contemporary N.B.A. percentage play.But the Nets, long a franchise nearly impossible to figure, instead won 20 of their next 26 games to become a prime contender for the Adam Silver Integrity Award, if the league’s commissioner, an avowed tsk-tsker on tanking, ever inaugurates it.On my way to Boston recently for an overnight road trip with my son to watch the Nets play the Celtics, I reached Sean Marks, the Nets’ general manager, by phone — on a scouting trip in Slovenia. First question: How the heck did you convince your team, at 8-18, that the remainder of the season would not be a countdown to a 14 percent lottery prayer for the No. 1 pick?“I will tell you that we never had to sit down and say, Hey, guys, we’re going to keep playing hard,” Marks said — “we” meaning he and Coach Kenny Atkinson. “That was player-led, strictly character-driven.”It has been a wishful return on assembling a roster of lower draft picks and reclamation projects, players with “chips on their shoulders,” in the general absence of lottery blue chips.“The never-ending odyssey in this business,” Marks said, “is doing your homework and betting on people, their will and their drive.”Marks is a 43-year-old New Zealander, drafted in 1998 by the Knicks out of the University of California, Berkeley, and traded the next day with good company, Charles Oakley, to Toronto for Marcus Camby. A 6-foot-10 frontcourt reserve, he survived with modest N.B.A. skills for roughly a decade, which explains much of what has happened since his retirement as a player in 2011.“There probably are very few people who had careers as long as Sean had while getting as few minutes, and there’s a good reason for that,” said R.C. Buford, the San Antonio Spurs’ general manager, for whom Marks played for two seasons and apprenticed as an assistant coach and front office executive.“In every role he’s had, he’s been a culture builder,” Buford said.Around the N.B.A., that word — culture — has become like a convenient catchphrase, an opening statement for best intentions.“People use it all the time — they’re going to work hard, play defense, play for the team — but how many actually do?” said P.J. Carlesimo, whose N.B.A. stops in coaching and broadcasting have included San Antonio and Brooklyn. “Because of his time with the Spurs, Sean knows what a good locker room is like.”For contrast, take the Knicks. Their new management team also talks up culture creation, but their stylistic approach in Coach David Fizdale’s first season has been archetypal Y.M.C.A. choose-up. The Knicks’ front office claims operational independence from the team owner, James L. Dolan, but can’t even call an informal news conference without tailoring the guest list to his petty grievances.In San Antonio, where the Holt family has without question left the basketball people alone, Marks was told in no uncertain terms that he could well be a bridge to a future without Gregg Popovich, the 70-year-old head coach and team president.But the blank slate in Brooklyn — where ownership is a largely absentee and ambiguously directed partnership between Mikhail Prokhorov and Joseph Tsai — presented a clean-slate challenge that was more intriguing than daunting.“We knew there were going to be some dark days,” Marks said. “But we all gave up good jobs because we thought we had a chance to build something special.”Before a culture, first came a core. With a flurry of moves deftly manipulating salary cap space, Marks dealt his way into the lower echelons of the draft and emerged with LeVert, a versatile guard, and Jarrett Allen, a mobile, defensive-minded center.Through a trade with the Los Angeles Lakers, he reeled in point guard D’Angelo Russell, the No. 2 pick in the 2015 draft who was recently named an Eastern Conference All-Star. Spencer Dinwiddie, a mercurial guard, parlayed a lifeline from the N.B.A.’s developmental league in December 2016 into a $34 million extension two years later.These Nets had climbed to four games over .500 before hitting a recent rut. A hand injury to Dinwiddie hurt a roster already thinned by the loss of LeVert, who could return soon, and Allen Crabbe.Without marquee talent, the season can be interminably long, winding and bruising. Even in the East, the less forbidding of the two conferences, remaining in playoff position for the Nets will require a collective stamina they may not yet have.If they do qualify, Marks could be a candidate for executive of the year for stocking his roster with hope, against the odds. Is there a more difficult projection in team sports drafting than being outside N.B.A. lottery position?“It’s very different than the other sports,” Buford said. “Even in the top 10 picks, only about 80 percent will find their way into a rotation.”The Spurs’ foundation and selfless identity were built with David Robinson and Tim Duncan, both No. 1 overall picks and special people. But winning five championships requires much more than a hub. Most famously with Manu Ginobili (late second round) and Tony Parker (late first), the Spurs set a standard for locating unheralded gems, particularly from abroad.In the other talent-acquisition game of big-ticket free agency, the Knicks now figure to have two max salary slots next summer after last week’s stunning trade of Kristaps Porzingis to Dallas.As always, they will be selling the sizzle of Manhattan, but if there is a more discerning superstar out there who wants to look deeper, he could begin at the 8-minute 42-second mark of the fourth quarter of the Nets game in Boston on Jan. 28.Atkinson’s team was trailing by only 7 points when he yanked Russell, who had already scored 25, for the remainder of the night.Deploying one rookie (Theo Pinson) with a handful of N.B.A. games on his résumé and another (Mitch Creek) signed to a 10-day contract, the Nets fought hard in defeat. Russell later admitted that Atkinson had benched him for dubious on-court decisions. At the same time the coach was sending his point guard a message, he was also saving him for a more winnable game the next night at home against Chicago.The Nets prevailed over the Bulls as Russell dropped 30. From the not-so-cheap seats, they looked to have a core and a culture — and a clue.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDALLAS — Whether they are trying to keep their 34-year-old playmaker Jose Juan Barea spry or aiming to help their 19-year-old phenom Luka Doncic dodge the infamous rookie wall, the Dallas Mavericks turn to the same resource: A blood test.It is not just any blood test. The Mavericks import frequent testing from the Irish company Orreco, which is in its third season making personalized recommendations for Mavericks players regarding athletic workloads and diets, largely through the study of blood analysis.Although some in the sports medicine community have questioned whether the value of such blood work is overstated, Dallas leans heavily on Orreco’s team of consultants and their assessments of how to maximize player-readiness.“All the things N.B.A. teams talk about — players’ minutes, their load, their tracking data, their camera data — all of that is external data used to try to predict what’s going on internally,” said Casey Smith, the head of Dallas’s athletic training staff. “What we’re doing is trying to get a little bit of a look at what’s actually going on internally.”Dallas is one of just two N.B.A. teams, along with the Knicks, to hire Orreco, which proposes customized remedies to combat fatigue and tries to identify increased risk for injury and illness by obtaining a range of data from players’ blood and feeding it into machine-learning programs.Taking cues from Orreco’s findings, Smith and Jeremy Holsopple, the Mavericks’ athletic performance director, tailor an individualized mix of training, rest and recovery for each of Dallas’s 17 players. The Mavericks' owner, Mark Cuban, said the team pays Orreco nearly $150,000 per year.No Maverick has embraced this process more than Barea, who understands all too well that fatigued players face an increased risk of soft-tissue injuries.Two seasons ago, amid worrisome forecasts from what Smith referred to as “the numbers,” Barea tore a calf muscle in a November 2016 game against Boston.Ever since, Barea has proactively sought updates on his levels of oxidative stress (worrisome as they get higher) and white blood cell counts (which can indicate illness or infection when they spike or indicate less immune prevention as they get lower).This season, Barea is playing some of his best basketball (averaging 10.9 points and 5.7 assists in just 19.8 minutes per game) and said he is “having more fun than ever” while carefully adhering to the suggestions Smith gives based off Orreco’s data.“I like it,” Barea said. “At this point in my career, you have to work more on the body. They let me know what’s going on — like what you need to eat or what you need to stop eating. I want the feedback.”Four times a season, Orreco staff members come to Dallas to administer a full venous blood draw on Mavericks players. To supplement those visits, Dallas mixes in frequent capillary blood draws for its players in which a quick pinprick sample is taken to provide near-instant readings of oxidative stress levels in the blood from a player’s ear or index finger.League rules allow players to refuse any blood testing if they find the procedures too invasive, but the team says only one Maverick, whom they declined to identify, had done so.“It’s your health, so it’s your decision,” Smith said.The samples, according to the Orreco co-founder Dr. Brian Moore, enable the firm to analyze a player’s hematology and biochemistry by assessing nearly 50 biomarkers.This includes examining creatine kinase to assess muscle damage and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein to measure inflammation — two areas of particular concern for basketball players because of the nature of their on-court movements. Hydration and nutrition indicators — such as vitamin D levels, and iron and fatty acid profiles — are among the additional variables analyzed to determine where each player lands on a four-zone “readiness to perform” index.Along with the biomarker panels, Orreco’s algorithms also take into account game minutes, air miles traveled, sleep data and reaction times that are obtained from wearable devices used during practices.The rules that allow players to opt out of blood testing are in place because regulating how teams use biometrics and the data such research produces — specifically whether the data belongs to the teams, players or the league itself — remains an evolving point of concern throughout the N.B.A. As a safeguard amid the rise of wearable technology in practice sessions, league policy threatens fines of up to $250,000 per team for the misuse of biometric data.Yet Smith insists that the collaboration with Orreco has improved the Mavericks’ ability to track the onset of illness and keep players “more available” for games. In the 2016-17 season, according to data maintained by InStreetClothes.com, a website that tracks injuries in the N.B.A., Dallas players missed only four games due to illness — less than half the league average of 8.5.The Mavericks then lost a league-low zero games to illness last season, when the league average was 7.1 games per team, according to the site.“Does that mean we win more games?” Smith said. “Not necessarily. But it gives us a better shot.”Still, with the sports and fitness world littered with treatments not supported by vetted published studies, some independent experts have their doubts.Dr. Anthony Romeo, the chief of orthopedics at the Rothman Institute in New York and a former team physician for the Chicago White Sox who also worked with the Chicago Bulls, said he would maintain “a healthy level of skepticism” about Orreco’s work until it reveals more about the biomarkers it studies and the data being gathered.”I would be cautious and say it’s investigational,” Romeo said. “It’s a very interesting area of research and we applaud the efforts that they’re making. But at this time nothing supplants outstanding coaches and trainers that can do a visual analysis and understand their athletes from the traditional methods to know whether they’re training too hard or too little.”“At some point,” Romeo said of Orreco, “they’re going to have to share their data in a way that it can be repeated so that we know it’s true.”Said Dr. Robert Dimeff, a team physician for the Dallas Stars of the N.H.L. and a past president of the American Medical Society for Sports Medicine: “I think this is a research-based tool at this point in time, but I don’t think it’s ready for prime time. What they’re doing is something that in 10 years from now we may say, ‘Wow, this is absolutely great information.’“We can’t say that right now. But what they’re doing is trying to put some science behind recommendations and I think that’s very admirable.”Despite such skepticism, Cuban remains one of the biggest proponents of Orreco’s work. After watching an interview in which the openly data-hungry Cuban discussed his growing fascination with artificial intelligence, Moore wrote to Cuban before the 2016-17 season with a pitch that Orreco could “optimize performance, accelerate recovery and prolong careers” by using “high-end computing to find patterns in the data.”“Our job is to help the Mavericks make better decisions,” Moore said.Cuban was quickly sold.“Managing player load is as important as understanding traditional basketball analytics,’’ Cuban said. “Causation is always more valuable that correlation.”Although the Mavericks are hardly alone in embracing bioanalytics, they are on a very short list of top-level professional sports franchises that are willing to ignore the ultra-secretive norm and publicly acknowledge its work with Orreco.Aside from the Mavericks, only Newcastle United of the English Premier League has acknowledged being an Orreco customer. Through a person with knowledge of the contract, The Times confirmed that the Knicks are the other N.B.A. team to use Orreco as extensively as the Mavericks.Orreco also consults with a handful of individual players, including Wilson Chandler of the Philadelphia 76ers and Quincy Pondexter of the San Antonio Spurs.The company, though, said it could not discuss the Knicks, or the two Major League Baseball clubs and another Premier League soccer team it counts as clients.Smith cited Quest Diagnostics’ Blueprint Fit as another top practitioner in the field that he suspects has an N.B.A. clientele and acknowledged that several of his peers within the league are aware of what Dallas is doing, and asking lots of questions.“And I think there will be more,” Smith said.Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
Giannis or Harden for M.V.P.? Who makes the Warriors better: Steph or K.D.? Marc Stein considers these questions and more in the latest edition of his newsletter.Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate for this season’s Most Valuable Player Award.CreditCreditMorry Gash/Associated PressSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to get this newsletter from Marc Stein each week — for free? Sign up here.]As the 2018-19 regular season dribbles to a close, with just two nights and 22 of 1,230 games to go, voters leaguewide are finalizing their year-end award ballots in six major categories. I am no longer one of them, because The New York Times does not permit its reporters to vote for such awards, but it’s still a useful exercise as we take stock of the season to break down each race and who I would have picked.Official selections are due Friday night and there is simply no wrong answer when choosing between Antetokounmpo and Houston’s James Harden for the top spot on the five-man M.V.P. ballot.I have always approached this category by trying to identify who had the best overall season — based on a subjective and imprecise mixture of individual and team success — rather than paying attention to the noise about which player is most widely regarded as the game’s best … or the best two-way player … or any other such designation.So who had the better 2018-19 season? I would go (ever so narrowly) with Giannis. On top of all his individual superlatives, Antetokounmpo has been the face and chief culture-setter in the Bucks’ transformation from 44-win underachiever to the best team in the league (regular-season edition). And his candidacy gets bonus points on our scorecard because Milwaukee, for Eastern Conference supremacy, had to beat out a trio of worthy challengers who were all projected as superior before the season.Harden would be tremendously unlucky to finish second in M.V.P. balloting for the third time in five seasons, but I think that’s where this is headed. He is going to be the first scoring champion (36.1 points per game) to win the scoring title by more than eight points per game since Michael Jordan did over Dominique Wilkins in 1986-87. And I tend to agree with Houston Coach Mike D’Antoni’s contention that Harden is the only player capable of hauling the injury-riddled Rockets to 53 victories out of the 11-14 hole they were in. Harden simply has the misfortune of doing all that damage in a season that belonged to Antetokounmpo and the Bucks.It feels as though I have been writing and tweeting about Doncic and his Atlanta Hawks counterpart Trae Young all season. I suspect I will be writing about the two of them for the next decade-plus. And I’m fine with that.Doncic has had the start-to-finish stronger campaign and continued to look like a franchise player even though the Mavericks steadily increased his Year 1 workload after trading away four-fifths of their starting lineup in February. The trade brought in Kristaps Porzingis and better positions Dallas to build out a supporting cast tailored to their electric European import.Young has delivered even more impressive post-All-Star break production (24.9 points per game and 9.1 assists per game) for a scrappy Hawks team with a passable record of 23-29 since its dismal 6-23 start — and an increasingly bright future.Doncic is going to win the race, but Young overcame his own worrisome launch to make it a competition — and a rivalry that should have staying power — with his second-half surge.Doncic will be remembered as the only rookie in N.B.A. history not named Oscar Robertson to average at least 20 points, 7 rebounds and 5 assists. And Young can take solace in being almost as unfortunate as Harden if he doesn’t win the hardware. It’s quite a compliment when you think about it.Had the Indiana Pacers won 50 games in a season in which Victor Oladipo was healthy enough to play only 36, Nate McMillan would have the résumé to deny the Bucks’ Budenholzer. I’m not sure McMillan is miles off with 47 wins.Doc Rivers of the Los Angeles Clippers, like McMillan, is another victim of bad timing. Rivers hasn’t had a team overachieve like these starless Clippers since his rookie season on the bench with Orlando in 1999-2000 when the Magic won a wholly unexpected 41 games in a season billed as a placeholder before a splashy free-agent summer that ultimately landed Grant Hill and Tracy McGrady in the Magic Kingdom.But Milwaukee’s improvement in Budenholzer’s first season has been so dramatic that I can’t see how he doesn’t win his second Coach of the Year trophy. Perhaps some voters will try to convince themselves that the Bucks would be getting too much love if they vote for both Giannis for M.V.P. and Bud for this honor. But we’re talking about the league’s only 60-win team … and the runaway champions in average point differential for the season (+9.1) … and the only team in the league to rank in the top five in both offensive and defensive efficiency.Antetokounmpo is the biggest reason all that is possible. General Manager Jon Horst is likewise on an impressive run of roster moves. But Budenholzer’s impact has been undeniable.Honorable mentions, along with McMillan and Rivers: Denver’s Mike Malone, Brooklyn’s Kenny Atkinson, Portland’s Terry Stotts, Orlando’s Steve Clifford, Detroit’s Dwane Casey, Golden State’s Steve Kerr and, of course, San Antonio’s Gregg Popovich.Manu Ginobili, who just had his familiar No. 20 retired by the San Antonio Spurs, used to be synonymous with sixth man excellence to me. Ditto for Jamal Crawford.Yet I’d say Williams wears that crown now.The Clippers’ designated scorer won this award last season and stands as a huge favorite to join Crawford as the league’s only three-time winner — despite the challenge he’s getting from teammate Montrezl Harrell.Someone from the Clippers has to win some year-end recognition in light of the Cinderella season they’ve assembled. Williams makes the most sense over a quality field that also features Harrell, Indiana’s Domantas Sabonis, Brooklyn’s Spencer Dinwiddie, New Orleans’ Julius Randle and San Antonio’s Davis Bertans.As the self-proclaimed overseer of the All-Lefty Team, it pains me to snub both D’Angelo Russell of the Nets and Sacramento’s De’Aaron Fox in this category.But I’ve been saying for years that ultra-high former draft picks like Russell and second-year players like Fox are not going to be Most Improved candidates for me. Russell made a tremendous, inspiring leap to All-Star status in Brooklyn this season, but the wow factor partly stems from the fact that he fell so far short of expectations in his first three seasons. Fox, meanwhile, made the sort of Year 1-to-Year 2 leap Sacramento was counting on from someone it billed as a franchise cornerstone.No one expected Siakam to become an impact player at both ends and a borderline All-Star who helped the Raptors to post 57 wins amid the 22 games Kawhi Leonard missed for various reasons of injury and precaution.The nostalgic sap in me, truth be told, wanted to go with Minnesota’s resurgent Derrick Rose. But D-Rose only wound up being healthy enough to appear in 51 games — and as a former M.V.P. he’s more of a Comeback Player of the Year than a Most Improved candidate. The N.B.A.’s specific instructions in this category read as follows: “This award is designed to honor an up-and-coming player who has made a dramatic improvement from the previous season or seasons. It is not intended to be given to a player who has made a ‘comeback.’ ”Siakam, in other words, is perfect. He’s a former No. 27 overall pick who zoomed from role player to foundational player — either beside Leonard or in a post-Kawhi world should Leonard flee Canada in free agency this summer.Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate here, too, as is Oklahoma City’s Paul George and Indiana’s Myles Turner. But the Bucks, at least on this mythical ballot, will have to settle for two of the six top prizes.Three would have been too many. Especially since Utah’s Gobert remains such a dominant deterrent at the rim in his role as the anchor for a defense that officially ranks No. 2 but is essentially on par with Milwaukee’s.[Marc Stein’s newsletter will have the latest on the N.B.A. playoffs, which start Saturday. Sign up here.]You ask; I answer. Every week in this space, I’ll field three questions posed via email at marcstein-newsletter@nytimes.com. (Please include your first and last name, as well as the city you’re writing in from, and make sure the subject line reads “Corner Three.”)Q: Deandre Ayton hasn’t had a terrible rookie year, but it has paled in comparison to what we’ve seen from Luka Doncic and Trae Young. What do you think Ayton needs to improve on — and will he ever match Luka or Trae’s potential? — Henry Roth (Scottsdale, Ariz.)STEIN: It speaks to how far the Suns have faded from prominence that Ayton, as the No. 1 overall pick last June, got so little attention given the numbers he posted (16.3 points and 10.3 rebounds per game).The leaguewide fascination with Doncic and Young is also a factor, as you mentioned, but Ayton was overlooked in the extreme this season. Suns fans should be hoping that the snub helps motivate Ayton in Year 2, because consistency and sustained energy have been issues for him so far.From a technical standpoint, Ayton has to develop into more of a rim protector. With his mobility and athleticism, Phoenix should be able to build a defense around him. He’s not close to elite yet at that end.But it would also be unfair to ignore that Ayton was frequently forced to start alongside two other rookies on a squad that still doesn’t have a starter-level N.B.A. point guard.Q: Dirk Nowitzki hasn’t come out and said he is retiring, but everyone else seems to be saying it. At first I didn’t believe Adam Silver would have put Dirk in the All-Star Game if he didn’t have it on good authority that Dirk would soon retire, but could this actually not be his final year? It looks like Dirk’s ankle has finally recovered from surgery and he’s moving a lot better. Why not play one more season with Luka Doncic and Kristaps Porzingis and try to go out with a playoff berth? — Sharad AcharyaSTEIN: This much I can tell you: Dirk joining Dwyane Wade in the All-Star Game as a so-called “commissioner’s pick” has nothing to do with Nowitzki’s retirement plans. As Dirk stated before, during and after his trip to Charlotte, this was his All-Star swan song no matter what, even if he decided to play next season.I think there have been times since the All-Star break when an encouraged Nowitzki has imagined himself carrying on. He’s been a huge Porzingis fan for years and would naturally love to experience the Doncic/Porzingis tandem. But the reality is that season No. 21 has been a bigger challenge physically than he ever imagined.Is it really worth putting his body through the rigors of yet another nine-month ride? The case against coming back is much stronger than the case for it, which is why you’ve heard the likes of Mark Cuban and Steve Nash give interviews in recent days that make it sound as though the end is near.Q: I’d like to hear your thoughts on how Stephen Curry makes everyone else on the floor better and how that may not necessarily be the case with Kevin Durant? — Michael DortheimerSTEIN: Anyone who believes this must not have watched the last two N.B.A. finals.Steph is Golden State’s No. 1 playmaker and a true revolutionary when it comes to the way his seemingly limitless shooting range bends defenses.But there’s a reason Durant has won back-to-back M.V.P. trophies in the finals. He’s the best finisher in the game and was the best player on the floor on the game’s grandest stage two years in a row.The Warriors are 32-6 in the playoffs since Durant arrived. Who would dare say he doesn’t make all of the other Warriors better just by being out there?Curry has the ball in his hands more, which surely fuels the perception you describe, but Durant commands more double teams than any other Warrior and is a great passer both out of the post and in pick-and-roll situations. There is no shortage of coaches and scouts around the league who regard him as an elite playmaker.This is the fifth time in the Knicks’ 73-season history that they’ve had the league’s worst record. The first three times, there were fewer than 10 teams in the league: 1960-61 (21-58 in an eight-team league), 1962-63 (21-59 in a nine-team league) and 1964-65 (22-58 in a nine-team league). The Knicks were also at the bottom of a 23-team league in 1985-86 at 23-59. At 16-64 so far this season, the Knicks will post the lowest win total in franchise history unless they win at least one of their final two games. Utah’s Rudy Gobert is poised to finish this season with more dunks than anyone else, with 301 dunks to Antetokounmpo’s 279 for Milwaukee. Gobert, though, has played in all 80 of Utah’s games this season. Antetokounmpo has missed 12 of the Bucks’ 81 games to date. Antetokounmpo’s Bucks finished 18th in defensive rating last season. They’ve climbed 17 spots this season to rank No. 1 overall entering Tuesday’s play, allowing 104.8 points per 100 possessions. Jason Terry’s 590 regular-season games alongside Dirk are the most of any teammate in Nowitzki’s 21 seasons in Dallas. J.J. Barea ranks second (and No. 1 among active Mavericks) with 543 regular-season games. The Mavericks say Nowitzki has had 197 teammates.This is the 39th consecutive season, according to the peerless data maintained by Basketball-Reference.com, during which the average height of N.B.A. players is 6-foot-7. The last season that featured a different figure was 1979-80, when the average height of N.B.A. players was 6-foot-6.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
