AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 30 points and Khris Middleton added 21 to send Milwaukee to a methodical 115-107 victory over the Atlanta Hawks on Sunday night, giving the Bucks 60 wins in a season for the first time since 1981.The Bucks, who have clinched the best record in the Eastern Conference, led from the outset as the Hawks rested leading scorers John Collins and Trae Young.Milwaukee led 85-72 entering the final period, but Atlanta pulled to 101-98 on a drive by DeAndre' Bembry with 3:28 left.Middleton countered with consecutive 3-pointers and Antetokounmpo connected from beyond the arc to put Milwaukee up 110-98.Alex Len had a career-high 33 points for Atlanta, including six 3-pointers.None of the Bucks' starters played more than 27 minutes and 11 of 12 available players each logged at least 19 minutes.Milwaukee led 28-21 after one quarter and pushed it to 46-30 before the Hawks trimmed it to 54-45 at halftime.Vince Carter hit two free throws to cap a 10-point run that pulled Atlanta to 78-71, but the Bucks pushed the lead to 85-72 entering the fourth.Milwaukee, which lost in the first round of the playoffs each of the last two seasons, has not advanced past the opening round since making the Eastern Conference finals in 2001.The 1980-81 Bucks team that finished 60-22 under coach Don Nelson included Sidney Moncrief, Marques Johnson, Junior Bridgeman and Bob Lanier.TIP-INSHawks: Young (19.1 points per game), who had started all 80 games, and John Collins (19.5 ppg) did not play due to load management. "We figured today would be a good day to sit them and finish the season on a high note at home," coach Lloyd Pierce said. "That's really important for us as a team and with what we've been through this year."Bucks: Antetokounmpo, who did not play in Saturday's 133-128 loss to the Nets because of left calf soreness, was questionable for this one. But he was back in the lineup after experiencing no setbacks during pregame warmups.UP NEXTThe Hawks host Indiana on Wednesday.The Bucks host Oklahoma City on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLarry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed Thursday to part ways."We have great respect and appreciation for Larry and the job that he did as the head coach of the Cavaliers for nearly the entire 2018-19 campaign," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "He brought professionalism, class and steady leadership both this past season and prior four years."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role. Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers. All of us in Cleveland wish Larry nothing but the best going forward."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first, before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.Drew, 61, previously was head coach of the Atlanta Hawks (2010-13) and Milwaukee Bucks (2013-14), and joined the Cavaliers initially as an assistant coach in 2014, then as the associate head coach. While there, the Cavaliers won their first NBA title during the 2015-16 season. He has been an assistant coach in the NBA for 23 seasons.Drew went 8-1 as fill-in coach in the 2017-18 season while Lue was on a medical leave to deal with anxiety issues."I want to thank Dan Gilbert, Koby Altman, the entire organization, and especially our fans, for what has been a very special and rewarding time here in Cleveland. Koby and I had a good discussion following the season and have both decided that the best decision for each of us was that I would not return to coach the team," said Drew, who was an NBA point guard from 1980-91, playing for the Detroit Pistons, Kansas City/Sacramento Kings, Los Angeles Clippers and Lakers."I am very proud of what we accomplished over the last several years together and will always cherish our Championship. I also want to commend our players this season for the bond that they established, the way they approached their jobs and the hard work and growth they had every day. I am very proud of them and wish them the best as they continue to develop for the future."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherMike Bibby, the former N.B.A. player, is being investigated by the police over accusations of sexual abuse.Mr. Bibby, now a high school basketball coach in Arizona, was accused by a teacher who works at the same school, The Arizona Republic reported. The episode that prompted the accusations was said to have taken place in 2017.The Republic, citing a restraining order granted last week, said that Mr. Bibby had been accused of grabbing the teacher by the waist and pulling her into a car, then groping her and rubbing his genitals on her. After the woman left the car, the order said, he followed her and made sexual remarks. The woman said she did not know Mr. Bibby before the incident.The restraining order quoted the teacher as saying she was “in shock, in fear, intimidated by his actions, afraid of him as he smelled of alcohol.”A lawyer for Mr. Bibby denied the accusations.“I can say with pretty much certainty this alleged incident didn’t happen and that will be shown down the road,” Donald Harris, Mr. Bibby’s lawyer, told The Republic. “Michael Bibby did not participate in a sexual assault of any way, shape or form that was alleged by this lady two years ago.”Mr. Bibby recently coached the boys’ basketball team to a fourth straight state championship at the school, Shadow Mountain High in Phoenix. He is also an alumnus of Shadow Mountain, and won a state championship as a player in the 1990s before attending the University of Arizona, where he won a national championship in 1997. He retired from the N.B.A. in 2012 after a 14-year career with six teams, most notably the Vancouver Grizzlies, Sacramento Kings and Atlanta Hawks. He spent his last season with the Knicks, playing 39 games after signing as a free agent in December 2011.For the past two summers, Mr. Bibby, 40, played with the Ghost Ballers of the Big3, a professional 3-on-3 basketball league founded by the rapper Ice Cube.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherKyle Korver, the veteran N.B.A. player, said he was embarrassed by some of his thoughts about race in the past and uncomfortable about the contradictions of being a white player in a largely black sport. And in an essay in The Players’ Tribune, he strongly urged action to redress racism around the N.B.A. and in the United States.In the essay, titled “Privileged,” Korver, who plays for the Utah Jazz, recounted an incident from when he played for the Atlanta Hawks. After a teammate, Thabo Sefolosha, was injured and arrested in New York in 2015, Korver said his first reaction was, “What was Thabo doing out at a club on a back-to-back?” rather than concern about the injury or dismay over the arrest. “I sort of blamed Thabo,” he said.Cringing at that thought today, Korver noted that as a white man, “I probably would’ve been safe on the street that one night in New York.”In March, Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder had an altercation with a fan in Salt Lake City. Korver told a reporter at the time: “You know Russ. He gets into it with the crowd a lot.” But soon after, he heard the full story, that Westbrook heard the fan make “racial” remarks, as Westbrook put it. His teammates shared stories of similar experiences. “Guys were just sick and tired of it all,” he wrote.His words resonated as a white player speaking on race, in a league with predominantly black athletes playing before predominantly white crowds.He noted this position: “I have more in common with the fans in the crowd at your average N.B.A. game than I have with the players on the court.”“I may work with those guys. And I absolutely 100 percent stand with them. But I look like the other guy. And whether I like it or not? I’m beginning to understand how that means something.”The essay drew positive reactions from the world of the N.B.A. and elsewhere.“Salute my brother,” LeBron James said on Twitter. “Means a lot. And like you said, I hope people listen, just open your ears and listen.”Korver, 38, has played for five N.B.A. teams over a career dating to 2003. At his peak, he was one of the game’s best shooters, especially 3-pointers. This season, he is averaging 9 points and 20 minutes a game with the Jazz.His essay wrestles with systemic racism throughout America, and Korver said: “As white people, are we guilty of the sins of our forefathers? No, I don’t think so. But are we responsible for them? Yes, I believe we are.”“It’s about understanding on a fundamental level that black people and white people, they still have it different in America. And that those differences come from an ugly history … not some random divide.”“I believe that what’s happening to people of color in this country — right now, in 2019 — is wrong,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreBy Victor MatherThe Knicks won a basketball game Thursday night. That has not happened since Jan. 4.There won’t be a ticker-tape parade, but it was a surprise. This, after all, has been a really bad season for the Knicks.They are 11-47. The win, over the Atlanta Hawks, 106-91, broke an 18-game losing streak, which was a franchise record.The team traded away its most popular player by far, Kristaps Porzingis, and in return got a rookie and a couple of expiring contracts. The deal also meant the cancellation of the coming Latvian Heritage Night at Madison Square Garden, which frankly was shaping up to be one of the highlights of the season.To be fair, a core of loyalists insist that these Knicks are a fun bunch to watch. And there is optimistic talk for next year.The Knicks are bad enough to have a decent shot at the top draft pick, probably Zion Williamson, Duke’s superstar big man. Cap space will allow the team to seek big-name free agents, and there is sunny speculation that the team could land stars like Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving or even both.We’ll see about that. But for now, fans are left pondering if the Knicks are historically dreadful or just run-of-the-mill dreadful.Let’s see how the Knicks rate, at least in the current century.That means this year’s Knicks won’t have to compete against the consensus worst team of them all, the legendary 9-73 Philadelphia 76ers of 1972-73.Despite a couple of 50-win seasons, in 2000 and 2013, the Knicks’ winning percentage this century is .416, worst in the N.B.A. Yes, even worse than the Washington Wizards, and Charlotte Hornets, and even the Nets.Here is how the 2018-19 Knicks stack up.This is where it begins and ends. Wins. Losses. But mostly losses. Lots and lots of losses.The Knicks are 11-47, giving them a winning percentage that looks like a typo: .190.But there were worse seasons in the last 20 years. In 2012, the Bobcats (now the Hornets) finished at 7-59 in a lockout season for a .106 percentage.Over a full season, the 76ers in 2016, in full tanking mode, only barely managed to break double digit wins with a 10-72 record.The Knicks are only 11th worst.Even counting just those streaks that are contained in a single season, the Knicks’ 18-gamer comes up short. The 2011 Cleveland Cavaliers and the 2014 76ers both managed to stumble to 26 straight losses. After Thursday’s win, the Knicks have lost their chance at that ignominious record.The Knicks have been outscored by 8.7 points in an average game this season.Again, there have been worse teams. The 2012 Charlotte strike team lost by 13.9 points a game. The 2000 Clippers put up minus-11.5 over a full season.The Knicks are only 25th.There are those Sixers again: In 2015, they shot .408 for the season. At .430, the Knicks are 39th.The 2009 Grizzlies had only 17.4 assists per game, trailed closely by the 2006 Knicks of Larry Brown, Stephon Marbury and notorious nonpasser Eddy Curry.This season’s Knicks aren’t good, but they aren’t really bad, at 19.9, for 91st place.It is not a good time for defensive stats in the N.B.A. Using the metric points allowed per 100 possessions, three teams this season are in the top five of the century: The Cavaliers are allowing 117 points per 100, worst of the era, and indeed for as far back as Basketball-Reference’s stats go. Over the last 20 years, this season‘s Suns are second, and the Knicks, at 113.4, are seventh.Do any of this year’s Knicks individually reach truly humiliating marks? Not really.Frank Ntilikina’s .342 shooting percentage is poor certainly, but it is only 24th worst among players with 15 minutes a game and 40 games played, a lot better than DeShawn Stevenson’s .285 from the 2012 Nets.So we are forced to conclude, that while dispiritingly bad, the Knicks come up short in another way too. They are not even really close to being the worst team of the last 20 years.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The Los Angeles Lakers described last weekend’s N.B.A. All-Star break as an opportunity for a much-needed reset, with the hope that they could ultimately make a playoff push after spending a few days apart. None of it sounded very convincing.But when the team reconvened for practice on Wednesday morning, LeBron James said his level of intensity had been “activated,” as if he were a superhero who had flipped a switch. He does not usually activate himself this early in the season, he said, but the Lakers need all of him now — in large part because they had lost so much ground when he was sidelined for about a month with a groin injury.“We would have loved to have had success when I was out, but we didn’t, so this is where we are right now,” James said.And when asked how he would elevate the play of his younger teammates, he put it simply: “We don’t have a choice.”In other words, it was sink or swim for the Lakers before their game against the Houston Rockets on Thursday night, and there would be no lifeguard.For one night, at least, the Lakers swam. They were cohesive enough to come away with a 111-106 victory against one of the better teams in the Western Conference. For one night, at least, the Lakers showed that they could erase a 19-point deficit by playing solid defense and making their free throws. For one night, at least, the Lakers could depend on players like Brandon Ingram (27 points, 13 rebounds) and Kyle Kuzma (18 points) to deliver in a game that the team really needed to win.The question now is whether the Lakers, who at 29-29 are the very definition of average, can build off it. Consistency has not been their hallmark.“It can give us some momentum that we need,” Coach Luke Walton said, “or it can do nothing. It depends how we respond to this.”Not so long ago, the Lakers had a similarly galvanizing win — or so it seemed.It was Feb. 7, and before the league’s trade deadline Magic Johnson, the team’s president of basketball operations, had failed in his quest to ship nearly half of the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans in exchange for the All-Star center Anthony Davis. It was a huge soap opera, and the Lakers responded in surprising fashion: by going out that night and defeating the Boston Celtics — on the road, no less.The win, though, was fool’s gold. The Lakers got pulverized by the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, then hobbled into the All-Star break with a loss to the Atlanta Hawks — a performance so devoid of energy that it seemed to signal a dysfunctional locker room, and maybe even one that was beyond repair.The team was below .500.Walton encouraged his players to reflect and refocus over the break. For James, that meant returning to Los Angeles in playoff mode — much earlier than he would prefer.But this is unfamiliar territory for James, a three-time champion who has made 13 straight trips to the playoffs and eight straight appearances in the N.B.A. finals. Now, with an inexperienced batch of teammates on the Lakers, he is merely fighting to lead them into the postseason.“I’m all about being uncomfortable,” he said this week. “I love being uncomfortable. I fall in love with being uncomfortable, so this is another uncomfortable thing for me, and I love it.”Then he must have loved what happened against the Rockets (33-25), who built a gaping lead in the third quarter behind James Harden. But the Lakers dominated the fourth quarter by limiting the Rockets to 36.8 percent shooting and forcing six turnovers. James finished with 29 points, 11 rebounds and 6 assists.“He’s had more of a serious focus on his face, about him, the last two days, even in the practice facility,” Walton said, adding: “I think he recognizes where we’re at and the sense of urgency we need to play with.”The Lakers also benefited from the fresh presence of Reggie Bullock, a versatile wing whom they acquired from the Detroit Pistons at the trade deadline. Bullock scored 14 points and defended the Rockets’ James Harden for long stretches. For a team that lacks much experience, Bullock could make a difference moving forward.“He’s a vet,” James said. “It’s great to have a shooter of his caliber, of his size; his competitive nature out on the floor. He was big for us.”The Lakers left Staples Center two and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final playoff spot in the West. But James expressed supreme confidence as the team prepared to visit the Pelicans on Saturday.“I like where I’m at,” he said. “I will love where I’m at in the next few games, and I believe — continue to get better and better.”As for his teammates — well, that is up to them.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn College BasketballBy Marc TracyWhen Zion Williamson of Duke went down with a severed shoe and a sprained knee 30 seconds into Wednesday night’s showdown with North Carolina, it was bad news for plenty involved. Williamson now has to deal with an injury. Duke had to play its archrival without its best player and duly lost, 88-72. Nike faced questions about its product’s apparent failure.But ESPN, broadcasting the contest as part of its multibillion-dollar deal with the Atlantic Coast Conference, did just fine. The game’s biggest star was injured for nearly 99 percent of the game, yet on Thursday, the network reported that the rivalry had produced its highest-ever ratings for a weeknight college basketball game.The episode crystallized the economic limitations that N.C.A.A. amateurism and N.B.A. rules impose on Williamson, a preternatural talent, and the unique ways that they limit the income of a unique player.If the N.B.A. did not bar high schoolers from heading straight to the league — a rule that may disappear in a few years — then Williamson could already have been playing for, say, the Atlanta Hawks and making several million dollars on his rookie contract. If N.C.A.A. rules did not prevent players from signing endorsements, Williamson could already have been receiving millions from Nike.However, barring an outright catastrophe, Williamson, the likely top draft pick, will be getting paid, soon and well, and at a time when his economic productivity is even higher than it is today. His specialness, though, obscures what some suggest is the greatest injustice of college sports’ policy of amateurism.In contrast to Williamson and a few other superstars, most players in college basketball are denied the right to cash in during what is very likely their moment of peak economic value.“The top guys are worth a lot — on the order of millions a year,” said Daniel Rascher, a sports economist who has studied the economic value of college athletes. “But the seven, eight, nine guys,” he added, referring to the players further down the depth chart, “are going to be several hundred thousand a year in terms of the incremental revenue they bring to the school.”Take Duke’s Jordan Goldwire. He was a midrated recruit out of high school, and his options besides Duke included midmajor programs such as Eastern Kentucky, Coastal Carolina and Nevada-Las Vegas. He is probably not bound for N.B.A. riches. This season, he has not played at all in three A.C.C. games and has averaged fewer than seven minutes in those he has played in. He played eight minutes against the Tar Heels on Wednesday. But that actually made him an essential contributor to a two-hour broadcast worth a lot of money to Duke, the A.C.C. and ESPN.“If you look at the N.B.A., the guys who don’t play very much still get paid a lot,” Rascher said.Or forget about Duke and think of the players at whichever team makes the N.C.A.A. tournament out of the Big South or the Patriot League. Part of that billion-dollar event’s charm comes from the quirky matchups — and the potential for exciting upsets — when such teams face juggernauts like Duke and Kansas in the early rounds. Players on those teams, too, are producing a real financial return for the N.C.A.A., for its member colleges and for CBS and Turner Sports, even though their abilities will never be remotely so lucrative again. Yet they are prohibited from taking more than a relatively small, prescribed share of that value.Moreover, all of these players, too, are risking futures in professional basketball — more of them than you might think. While fewer than 5 percent of Division I men’s basketball players are drafted into the N.B.A., the N.C.A.A. said last year, around half go on to play pro basketball in some form, such as in foreign leagues. From teams in the five top conferences, the N.C.A.A. added, more than three-quarters of players go on to be paid to play.The college sports establishment’s common rebuttal to these lines of thinking is that not paying the players beyond scholarships and related costs is actually crucial to the popularity of their sports.Last year, in a federal lawsuit challenging the N.C.A.A.’s restrictions on compensation from an antitrust perspective, Mike Aresco, a former sports television executive who is now commissioner of the American Athletic Conference, testified that college players’ amateur status was a feature of their sports’ appeal, not a bug.“It resonated with fans because it wasn’t professionalized at all,” he said, according to a court transcript, while serving as a witness for several conferences and the N.C.A.A. itself. “And it was presented and framed as college students, as college sports.”Among other things, this distinction differentiated college basketball and college football from minor league sports, Aresco said. “And that was very important,” he added, “because minor leagues had never been popular.”He said: “People view college sports separately. And we always maintained that separation.”Rascher was a witness for the plaintiffs in that case, in which a decision is expected any day. His reply to arguments like Aresco’s was to point to the experiment of sorts that took place a few years ago, when the N.C.A.A. permitted colleges to offer athletes funds that included the so-called full cost of attendance. After players began to be “paid” slightly more than they had previously been, college sports’ popularity was not measurably affected.Williamson’s injury in the marquee game of the regular season, particularly so early in the contest, appeared to be a devastating blow to Duke, which entered as a 9-point favorite yet never led once. Being magnanimous, Roy Williams, North Carolina’s colorful coach, acknowledged as much afterward.“Be honest,” he said. “When the big fella goes out of the game, it changes a lot of stuff for them.”Judging from the final score, Williams was right. But be honest: If you looked only at the bottom line, you would not even know that the big fella was gone.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAs the crowd filed out of the Barclays Center in May 2015, there was reason for hope. Though the Nets had just been eliminated by the Atlanta Hawks in the first round of the playoffs, they had overachieved and shown some promise for the future. And Phil Jackson had become the Knicks president the year before, bringing his triangle offense and a coaching résumé that included 11 N.B.A. titles to Manhattan.Little did New York fans know that it would be four dreadful years before playoff basketball would return to the city. It finally will on Thursday night, when the Nets host the Philadelphia 76ers in a series tied at one all.While there has been no playoff basketball in the city in the interim, much has happened in those four years. And for Knicks and Nets fans, not much of it has been good.May 1, 2015 The eighth-seeded Nets fall to the top-seeded Hawks, 111-87. But they take two games in the series, raising optimism. “We were able to secure a playoff spot,” Coach Lionel Hollins says. “Some people will say, ‘Hey, we didn’t deserve it.’ That’s their problem.”June 25 After putting up a 17-65 record, the worst in franchise history and the league’s second worst in 2015, the Knicks have bad luck in the draft lottery, ending up at the No. 4 spot. Nevertheless, their selection, Kristaps Porzingis of Latvia, will pay off, quickly becoming a star and a fan favorite.Oct. 3 Knicks Coach Derek Fisher gets into a physical altercation after being confronted by Matt Barnes of the Memphis Grizzlies at the home of Barnes’s estranged wife. Barnes is suspended for two games.Dec. 30 Cleanthony Early of the Knicks is shot in the knee by masked men and robbed of gold teeth caps after a visit to a strip club.Jan. 10, 2016 The Nets fire Coach Hollins and demote General Manager Billy King with the team at 10-27. “Frankly speaking, I deserve a championship now much more than six years ago,”  owner Mikhail D. Prokhorov says.Feb. 8 The Knicks, 23-31, fire Fisher. “There’s not a whole lot to say,” Jackson says in his first remarks to reporters since the start of training camp.April 13 The Nets finish the season 21-61, the league’s third worst record. But there will be little help on draft day: They traded their top pick to the Celtics in 2014 for a 37-year-old Kevin Garnett and a 36-year-old Paul Pierce, both of whom are gone at this point.The Knicks finish 32-50. That’s a 15-game improvement, but Jackson says, “We’re disappointed about our season.”April 17 The Nets hire Kenny Atkinson, a Hawks assistant, as head coach. “Together, we can do great things,” Prokhorov says.June 2 The Knicks hire Jeff Hornacek as coach, bypassing the interim coach, Kurt Rambis.June 22 The Knicks trade for Derrick Rose, who proclaims them a “superteam.” After a year he will leave for the Cleveland Cavaliers.July 7 The Nets sign Jeremy Lin, perhaps hoping to recapture the Linsanity that took over the Knicks in 2012.July 8 The Knicks sign Joakim Noah for four years and $72 million. This will not work out. Noah will be suspended for 20 games for a drug violation, be sent to the developmental league and get into a shouting match with Hornacek. The Knicks wind up releasing him in 2018 and paying him anyway.Feb. 8, 2017 The Knicks legend Charles Oakley is ejected from Madison Square Garden during a game. The crowd sides with the former player, chanting “Oakley, Oakley.” The Knicks say he behaved abusively, and the owner, James L. Dolan, says that Oakley “may have a problem with alcohol.” Oakley sues, claiming defamation and battery.March 12 Carmelo Anthony gets his 10,000th point as a Knick, becoming the third player to reach that mark with two teams.April 12 The Nets finish 20-62, the worst record in the league. Once again a potentially high draft pick is gone, as part of the Garnett deal. The Knicks are 31-51.June 22 The Nets trade their longtime star Brook Lopez to the Los Angeles Lakers for D’Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov. Russell will become a key player in the team’s resurgence.June 28 The Knicks and Phil Jackson agree to part ways after three years. The Knicks never fully embraced his triangle offense, and Jackson remained wary of the 3-point shot as it became increasingly important in the league. He also could never seem to get rid of Anthony, the team’s aging star who refused to waive a no-trade clause. Jackson also feuded with the player expected to be the team’s future, Porzingis.Sept. 25 A trade is finally worked out for Anthony, who is sent to the Oklahoma City Thunder for Enes Kanter. He gave the Knicks seven seasons of 20-points-a-game play. Jackson was willing “to trade me for a bag of chips,” Anthony says. He also notes that under new management, “They went from asking for peanuts to asking for steak.”Oct. 18 Lin ruptures a knee tendon  in the Nets’ opening game and misses the entire season.Feb. 6, 2018 Porzingis tears the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee and is out for the rest of this season and the next one.April 11 The Nets finish 28-54. Incredibly, for a third straight year they do not have their top pick because of that Garnett deal. (Garnett is by now 41 and has been out of the league two years.) The lost picks turned into Jaylen Brown, a big part of the contending Celtics; Markelle Fultz, a No. 1 overall choice; and Collin Sexton, who averaged 17 points as a rookie with the Cleveland Cavaliers.The Knicks wind up 29-53 and fire Hornacek the next day. David Fizdale will be the new coach.Asked how the Knicks can improve, the superfan Spike Lee can only turn to prayer: “On bended knee I pray above to da basketball gods to deliver us back to da glory years of da Orange and Blue. Amen,” he writes in The New York Times.June 20 The Nets make a trade to get Dwight Howard from the Hornets, but Howard buys his way out of his contract and never plays for them.July 13 The Nets trade Lin to the Hawks, curing the city’s second, significantly milder case of Linsanity.Jan. 31, 2019 The Knicks  send their most popular player, Porzingis, who is still recovering from the torn A.C.L., to the Dallas Mavericks in a blockbuster trade. Two months later it will be revealed that he is under investigation by the New York Police Department after being accused of sexual assault.The Knicks get Dennis Smith Jr. and some expiring contracts, which should open up salary cap space so they can sign some marquee free agents. Assuming that marquee free agents would want to play for the Knicks.March 12 Knicks fans hoping for a change in ownership are disappointed when Dolan proclaims that he will not sell the team, even for $6 billion. Two days before that, he was filmed threatening a fan with banishment from the Garden after the fan had urged him to sell the team.April 10 The Knicks have sunk to the bottom of the league again, finishing 17-65 and tying the franchise-worst mark. The Nets start the season 8-18, but then unexpectedly turn things around behind Russell, Spencer Dinwiddie (picked up from the developmental league in 2016) and Jarrett Allen (a No. 22 pick in 2017). They finish 42-40. Playoff basketball returns to New York. For now.An earlier version of this article misstated the Knicks’ record in the 2014-15 season. They were 17-65, not 17-63.Benjamin Hoffman contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alex WongNathaniel Butler has been an N.B.A. senior photographer since 1984. Those were the days of shooting on film and developing photos in hotel rooms after games. Today, players text Butler as they arrive at the arena so he can be in position to capture a perfect arena entrance shot for them to post on Instagram.The job isn’t what it used to be.When Andrew D. Bernstein became an official N.B.A. photographer in 1986, he was continually thwarted in his attempts to get his camera into in-game huddles to capture the interactions between players and coaches. Pat Riley, who was the coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, made sure to obscure all viewpoints.Halfway through the season, Riley asked Bernstein why he wanted to be in the huddle. People want to see what’s happening on the inside, Bernstein told Riley, who agreed to give Bernstein a chance. If you screw up, Riley said, you are never coming back.More than three decades later, Bernstein is still photographing N.B.A. players, huddles and pretty much whatever he pleases as the league’s longest tenured senior photographer.Photographers have long played a critical role in shaping narratives in a league defined by faces and moments. The most iconic posters are the finished works of the photographers who position themselves along the baseline each game, often contorting their bodies and forgetting about personal comfort to get closer and take countless snaps, in hopes of capturing a masterpiece.In today’s N.B.A., they allow players to use those photographs as building blocks for their social media profiles. They have adapted to an ever-changing digital world that has presented new opportunities and a whole new set of challenges.On game day, Butler uses a combination of tethered remotes and custom phone apps to operate any number of cameras in an arena.He sends photographs to a team of editors in Secaucus, N.J., with the press of a button. In seconds, they can be published on the league’s official social media feeds and reach millions of people around the world.Despite the technological advances, shooting an N.B.A. game can be more difficult than one would think. “A basketball game is a complex situation,” said Bruce Ely, the lead photographer of the Portland Trail Blazers. “There are a lot of moving parts.”Like a fan’s arms waving across the frame just as Damian Lillard makes a 3-pointer. Or the leg of another player sneaking into the edge of the image, ruining a portrait. Another time, it might be a referee walking into a perfect shot.Despite the challenges, some N.B.A. photographers do not consider it their most difficult assignment. Nelson Campana, who photographs the Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team, regularly shoots weddings as well. The pressure of game night is nothing compared with the responsibility of chronicling a couple’s special day.“You have one night to make it right,” Campana said. “There’s a list of things you need to get, and you don’t get another chance. At a basketball game, you’re just hoping things happen.”Some nights, there is too much happening at the same time. As the Oklahoma City Thunder eliminated the San Antonio Spurs in the 2016 playoffs, Butler had to make a split-second decision about what to photograph at the buzzer. He focused on Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook embracing, and then got a shot of Durant with Tim Duncan. He stayed with Durant afterward, but that meant missing a chance to capture Duncan walking off an N.B.A. court for the final time.“Ideally,” Butler said, “I would like to be in two places at one time.”While some players enjoy being on the other side of these photographers’ lenses, others say it is an adjustment. Aaron Gordon of the Orlando Magic first remembers being in front of a camera as a high schooler being interviewed after winning a basketball tournament.“You have to live in a way where you’re O.K. with being seen,” Gordon said. “You’re always being watched these days.”Because so many photos are being taken, players have to accept that they can control only so much of what is shared online.“You want to nitpick every single picture,” said John Collins, a second-year forward with the Atlanta Hawks. “But it just can’t work that way. You can’t read everything about yourself and see every photo of yourself.”To take more control over their visual narratives on social media, players are working with photographers to shoot them outside basketball arenas.Cassy Athena is a professional photographer who has earned the trust of players around the league. Last season, at All-Star Weekend in Los Angeles, Athena followed Stephen Curry and his wife, Ayesha, for the entire weekend. She was also invited by Indiana Pacers guard Victor Oladipo to shoot him at New York Fashion Week in 2018.Athena says it takes time to convince certain players of the value of her photographs.“It’s not so much they don’t understand the importance of the moment,” she said. “It’s convincing them why they should share it with the world. When it clicks, you get guys who might not be the best N.B.A. player, but they use this” — meaning Instagram and professional photos — “to build their own brand and further their careers.”Older, more established players worry less about their online persona but more about how the images carry a nostalgic value as their careers wind down.“What photographers do may seem minute,” said Vince Carter, 42, who just ended his 21st season in the league. “But I’ve seen so many shots of the best moments of my career, and in some ways, they’ve helped me remember those moments.”Many of these iconic images can now be seen on the Instagram pages of the photographers themselves. Bernstein said he was the last guy dragged kicking and screaming into the social media era. He now enjoys posting classic pictures for Throwback Thursday.Butler adds watermarks to the photographs he posts on his feed because other accounts and publications will often publish them without giving him credit. But he recognizes the value of being online. “It opens you up to a whole other audience,” Butler said.The rise of social media accounts means there are now more photographers at N.B.A. games. Butler prefers to use a camera lens that does not require him to be right in the face of players to capture them up close. In the modern era, he has noticed a lot of camera phones being shoved into players’ faces.“There’s an etiquette that doesn’t exist anymore,” Butler said. “Not just in sports, but in society.”Even though photographers want to capture every moment, some also realize that there are boundaries. A few months ago, Kyrie Irving and Durant had a private conversation at All-Star Weekend in Charlotte, N.C., which was captured on film. It was circulated online, and many believed the two were discussing their heavily rumored plans to join the Knicks together this summer.“If I was a player, that would bother me,” Butler said. “You don’t have to document every second of their existence.”Bernstein had a similar decision to make more than 30 years ago, during the 1988 N.B.A. finals, when he walked through the Lakers’ locker room after a loss and found Magic Johnson and Michael Cooper with their uniforms on, dejected as the showers were running around them.It was a one-of-a-kind moment, but Bernstein opted against taking the photograph.“That was their time,” Bernstein said. “That didn’t need to be documented. I have that picture in my mind, and that’s enough.”An earlier version of this article described Nelson Campana’s job incorrectly. He photographs the Toronto Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team; he is not the team photographer.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaATLANTA — Kyle Kuzma had his first interaction with LeBron James a little more than a year ago, when Kuzma was a first-year forward with the Los Angeles Lakers and James was a few months from dragging the Cleveland Cavaliers to another appearance in the N.B.A. finals. Kuzma had reached out by phone, hoping for some tips.“Just wanted to see how one of the greats takes care of his body and has so much longevity,” Kuzma recalled this week in an interview. “Everybody wants to play basketball for as long as possible.”So much has changed since that initial conversation. Kuzma and James are teammates now, and Kuzma is experiencing the unique challenges that come with playing alongside one of the game’s behemoths. At the same time, James’s body finally betrayed him this season, which has only heightened the sense of urgency within the organization: The Lakers, who have missed the playoffs for five years running, are not in position for a patient rebuild.James, at 34, may still be in his prime, but the stakes are already high for a franchise that desperately wants to maximize his time in Los Angeles. And while neither James nor Lakers management has shown much enthusiasm for coaxing along a young core — the Lakers tried to ship half the roster to New Orleans last week — they are stuck in this together. James was supposed to be the savior of a flagship franchise gone astray; salvaging the final months of this year would be a key indicator that he still wields that type of power.“We have to approach the rest of the season just like you would during the playoffs,” Kuzma said.As Kuzma recalled his talk with James, he had no way of knowing that the Lakers were mere hours from suffering one final implosion before the N.B.A. All-Star break — a 117-113 loss to the Atlanta Hawks that left the team with a losing record and ample opportunity for soul searching.“It’s time for us to get away and reflect a little bit about where we are as a group,” Coach Luke Walton said. “I think this first part of the season, we’ve gone through a lot of adversity. And we’re probably not where we want to be, but we’re still close enough.”Close enough, that is, for vying for a spot in the playoffs, which was both an indication of the team’s modest goals and its sad reality. At 28-29, the Lakers are in 10th place in the Western Conference standings. It is unfamiliar territory for James, who has not been on a losing team this late in a season since he was a first-year forward with the Cavaliers.“But with LeBron on your team, anything is possible,” said Mychal Thompson, a power forward for the Showtime-era Lakers and an analyst for the team’s radio broadcasts. “I mean, look at some of the teams he’s taken to the finals — including last season. He’s capable of doing great things if you just get on board and run with him.”The Lakers, though, seem fragile after nearly five months of drama — all of it stemming directly or indirectly from the $154 million deal that James signed to join the team last summer. The pressure was on from the start, and little has gone according to plan.“There’s been more noise this year,” Walton said, “but that was to be expected with the moves in the off-season. That was something to be anticipated.”Where to begin? Brandon Ingram and Rajon Rondo were suspended for trying to brawl with the Houston Rockets two games into the season. Magic Johnson, the team’s outspoken president of basketball operations, chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting for the team’s slow start, igniting lasting questions about Walton’s job security. Nearly every player on the roster has been injured, and that includes James, who missed 17 games with a strained groin.And lest we forget: Last week, Johnson and General Manager Rob Pelinka tried to trade away nearly half the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans for Anthony Davis, who, before the start of the season, hired the same agent who represents James. It was the clearest sign yet that Johnson is willing to attempt the very boldest moves — no matter the residual damage.Consider that the Lakers, amid their ultimately fruitless effort to pry Davis away from the Pelicans, lost by 42 points to the Indiana Pacers. And with rumors of which Lakers would be traded swirling through social media, it was difficult to find arguments in their defense — even from James himself.Kuzma, who was offered up as one of the pieces in a potential deal, said it had been difficult to drown out the noise.“It’s definitely tough,” he said, “because this generation, you’re always on your phone, always on social media, always seeing it somewhere on TV.”But the trade deadline passed, and the roster more or less remained intact. There had been a sense that a surprising win against the Boston Celtics on Feb. 7 would galvanize the team in the wake of so much uncertainty. And even after losing to the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, the Lakers still had a chance to build some momentum against the Hawks on Tuesday.Before the game, James appeared to be in an upbeat mood. In the locker room, he knelt on a giant inflatable ball as he worked on some core-strengthening exercises. He crooned the lyrics to “Plug Walk” by the hip-hop artist Rich the Kid. He made small talk with Ingram. It was all vintage James.About three hours later, once the Lakers had punctuated their loss with a turnover, James made a beeline off the court and into the tunnel. He was practically steaming. He had finished with his fifth triple-double of the season — 28 points, 16 assists, 11 rebounds — but the Lakers’ defense was as porous as a coffee filter, and the result was just as messy.“I can throw that game in the trash,” James said.In a three-minute postgame session with reporters, Kuzma mentioned the concept of “fun” five times — specifically, the notion that the Lakers were not having much of it.“A lot of times we’re out there with sad faces, very focused faces,” Kuzma said. “But I think we’re at our best when we’re having fun.”Fun may not be the primary objective for James, and the psychic effects of the loss are sure to linger until at least Feb. 21, when their season will resume after the All-Star break with a home game against the Houston Rockets. For now, though, the best thing for these players may be to be away from each other for a while, which was one of Walton’s suggestions before they parted for the break.“Spend some time by yourself,” he said, and added: “I think we’ve got a group that will be ready by the time we get back.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported bySports of The TimesBy Michael PowellHOLBROOK, Ariz. — A wind that would not stop tugged at flags and sent sand devils spinning into this desert town as I walked past Mr. Maestas Restaurant and the Arizona Pawnman and the Empty Pockets Saloon and came to a rise and looked across an emptiness of plain that stretched the limits of vision.I recalled my talk a few days ago with Mike Budenholzer at the Ritz-Carlton in New York City. He coaches the Milwaukee Bucks, who finished the regular season with 60 wins and the best record in the N.B.A. His team features a brilliant Greek forward-guard-center named Giannis Antetokounmpo, Montenegrin and Turkish forwards, a Spanish center, and black and white players from corners rural and urban.He is known for his deft handling of diverse pro players. Where, I asked, did you pick up that skill?Let me tell you about my hometown, Holbrook, he said.Budenholzer, blue-eyed and middle-age, was once was a skinny, blond, teenage shooting guard in this old cattle and railway town. He starred on the Roadrunners basketball team at Holbrook High School alongside his boyhood friend B. J. Little, an African-American; a few Anglos; and a half-dozen Navajo boys who could run and pass all day and all night.“There’s no doubt in mind that my background there has helped me navigate life in the N.B.A.” Budenholzer said. “Growing up, you knew Navajo culture and black culture from Louisiana and Mexicans. I learned to foster the same sort of culture.”Holbrook comprises its own world, an isolated high desert city of 5,053 that sits on the southern lip of the Navajo Nation, which is the size of the Republic of Ireland. To the south lies the small Mormon town of Snowflake, and beyond that the forests and canyons of the White Mountain Apache Reservation, which is bigger than Delaware.Holbrook’s population is roughly 50 percent white and 50 percent Navajo, Hopi, Mexican and black. The city has long kept a dormitory for Navajo children whose parents want them to attend the well-regarded Holbrook High School. Founded in the 1880s, Holbrook was an outlaw-friendly habitat, and a sign on the South Side tends to underline this point: Bucket of Blood Street. Terrill’s Cottage Saloon once stood on this street, and more than a few cowpokes breathed their last there.Quite a few youngsters leave in search of better prospects. The city is tattered at the edges, a few buildings lie gape-toothed and abandoned, a motel stands vacant, and a single movie theater shows a single movie. But it’s a hospitable place, and the main drag, Navajo Boulevard, has Mexican restaurants and motels and Native American jewelry stores and a herd of giant plastic dinosaurs that signal proximity to Petrified Forest National Park.Budenholzer’s father, Vince, coached the basketball team and won a state championship in 1971 and was inducted into the state coaching hall of fame. At the time, Mike was an assistant to Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs. During a team visit to Phoenix, he told Popovich of his father’s ascent. When Vince showed up later that day, Popovich got down on a knee in the hotel and said, “Here is a real coach.”Father and son were two hoops tramps who traveled in school buses hundreds of miles across the empty quarter of Northern Arizona in search of games and wins.Vince’s Holbrook teams played a variation on the Native American hoops style known as Rez Ball: A quicksilver, sneaker-squeaking, run-pass-pass-shoot style, perfect for the Navajo and the Apache, for whom distance running is a millenniums-old tradition.“We pressed from the minute we stepped off the bus,” Vince said. ”I had one Navajo who was taller than 6 foot, and so what?”Vince is 89 and still lean in that way of an old athlete, and he and his wife, Libby, moved nine years ago to Queen Valley, in the cactus foothills of the Superstition Mountains, east of Phoenix. They miss Holbrook; it remains the home of their hearts, but the winters on that mile-high plateau ran them off. “The winds never stop blowing,” Libby said.The couple raised seven children, five boys and two girls, in a small house across Florida Street from Hunt Park. Libby became a councilwoman and served a term as mayor, and Vince moonlighted as Holbrook’s parks and recreation director during the summer. He built a hoop in his backyard and put up a floodlight so the teenagers could play into the evening.Little, Mike’s old teammate who is now a judge in nearby Winslow, drove me by that house, which was sold years back. The hoop still stood.“Oh man, we’d play there the whole night, and Vince would never stop coaching,” Little said. “My grandparents said I had to get home before the streetlights came on. But if I was playing ball with Mikey at the Budenholzers, that was my pass.”Father and son Budenholzer flashed hauntingly similar smiles when they recalled those days. Mike was the leading scorer on the Roadrunners, a kid who could shoot from near and far and almost as well with his left hand as his right. Little, whose grandparents came from Louisiana to work in the McNary Saw Mill, ripped rebounds, and the Navajo kids dribbled and ran and pressed.The day before the tournament, two of the best players got drunk. They were suspended, and that left the Roadrunners with one star: Mike Budenholzer. That was not enough horsepower, and the team lost. “It boggled my mind that they would get caught,” Mike said.“I think I would give up an N.B.A. championship to get that one back,” he said.I looked at him: You’re kidding, right? He shrugged. “I mean, winning a state championship in Arizona, that’s a big deal.”Navajo and Mexican and Anglo kids still play baseball, basketball and football and live more or less shoulder to shoulder. “It was a town where you played everything and with everyone else,” Mike said. “The only social rule you recognized in high school was that Mormon girls don’t date non-Mormons.”He shrugged. “So you adjust.”Budenholzer was a good student and got into Pomona College, a fine liberal arts institution in California. He was not yet sold. He was a jock and he wanted to play basketball and he already had a scholarship offer in hand.He visited Pomona and sat around with other students and listened as they talked of their choices. There was the kid who was weighing Williams College or Pomona, and another who was wait-listed at Stanford University. They looked at Budenholzer and asked, What about you?“I tell them I’m trying to choose between Pomona and Yavapai Community College, where I could get a free ride,” Budenholzer said. “And they were, like, ‘whaaaat?’ And I’m thinking, ‘What am I doing here, I’m in the wrong place.’ ”His brothers and sisters decided Mikey, the youngest, was going to Pomona. They pooled money as best they could so he could afford it. He graduated with a degree in philosophy and economics.Before he left Holbrook and set out on his life journey, Budenholzer did what he did every summer, which is to say he rounded up B. J. Little and other buddies and piled into a car and headed north to play in the informal spring tournaments that are a staple of life on the Navajo reservation. They drove across washes and around canyons and past red-ribbed buttes that reared like primeval monsters. They pulled into Navajo towns: Dilkon and Window Rock, Tuba City and Ganado, anywhere there was a tournament.They got caught up in endless Rez Ball games, running and shooting and banging one another from morning till late at night. As hoops is civic religion on the rez, crowds of hundreds watched and cheered, not least for the bilagaanas (Navajo for whites).“Those spring tournaments got rough, the referees were terrible and man, it was just the best,” Budenholzer said.During the season when reservation teams arrived to play Holbrook, a long line of cars would follow. The rule was straightforward for Holbrook’s fans, Vince said. Make it to the gym by 4 p.m. for a 7 p.m. game, or you could forget about finding a seat.It is not so different when Mike’s teams pull into Phoenix. After working as an assistant with the Spurs, he coached the Atlanta Hawks before coming to Milwaukee. Whenever his team plays the Phoenix Suns, Little’s sister sets to work organizing a Holbrook caravan. Dozens of cars wend their way down through ponderosa forests and jagged mountains to the game — whites, Mexicans, blacks and Navajos, sometimes 100 strong. After the game, Budenholzer talks with them.“It always moves me,” Mike says.It’s been a long time since he left home. This summer, after the N.B.A. playoffs and before the pro summer leagues begin, he and Vince and Libby plan to drive up through the Tonto National Forest and across the Salt River Canyon to Holbrook. And when they reach their old high school gym, they will find teammates and students and teachers and townspeople gathered to listen as Superintendent Robert Koerperich dedicates the Vince Budenholzer gym floor.“To let our kids know that you can come out of Holbrook and coach a pro team, how amazing is that?” Koeperich says.Mike Budenholzer looks forward to walking Navajo Boulevard and maybe seeing the family house again. Then he wants to stand behind Vince and Libby and clap so hard.“To have raised seven kids on a teacher’s salary in a great small town and let us interact and form great friendships with Navajos and Mexicans and blacks and Mormons. They were really ahead of their time,” Budenholzer said. “This is America.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLou Williams, who has the unusual role of leading the Clippers in scoring while coming off the bench, does not run around the court so much as flutter across it. At 6 feet 1 inch and 175 pounds, he has embraced his identity as a butterfly among a herd of cattle.But at this stage of his career, Williams wants to feel as light and nimble as possible — so he essentially starves himself on game days. After a big breakfast, he refuses to eat again until well after the game itself, often going nearly 12 hours between meals.It is one of several habits that Williams, 32, has developed over the years, and one that clearly works for him. It is also the opposite of how most elite athletes prepare for games. But Williams is different: He wants to take the court with an appetite.“That’s crazy,” Landry Shamet, the first-year Clippers guard, said. “I’d weigh about 115 pounds if I did that.”The Clippers, as they often have this season, turned to Williams on Monday night for an extraordinary performance — this time against the Golden State Warriors in Game 2 of their first-round playoff series. In the Clippers’ 135-131 win, Williams collected 36 points and 11 assists to help erase a 31-point deficit.Shamet sealed the biggest comeback in N.B.A. playoff history with a go-ahead 3-pointer with 16.5 seconds left, and the Clippers evened the best-of-seven series at one game apiece.“I’m one of those guys who can get hot,” said Williams, who shot 13 of 22 from the field, “and I just got lost in the moment.”The Clippers, who have thrived behind Williams in the wake of a midseason deal that sent Tobias Harris to the Philadelphia 76ers, will need all of him again — all his scoring, all his savvy, all his unusual rituals — when the Warriors come to Los Angeles for Game 3 on Thursday.Make no mistake, the Clippers have their share of scrappy, no-nonsense guys. Patrick Beverley, who has spent the series covering the Warriors’ Kevin Durant like aluminum foil, would trash talk a telephone pole.Williams, on the other hand, carries himself with a brand of quiet composure that has a power all its own.“He goes about his business,” said Sam Cassell, an assistant coach for the Clippers. “He’s not overwhelmingly faster than people. He’s not bigger than people. But he understands what he can do on the basketball court, and he does it well.”The Warriors’ Klay Thompson recently came across a package of highlight clips from Williams’s days as a star guard at South Gwinnett High School outside of Atlanta. What stood out to Thompson was how little Williams had changed.“He played the exact same way,” Thompson said in an interview before the start of the series. “It was incredible: same step-back jumper, same hesitations, same floaters.”Williams has stuck with the same general blueprint while refining his skills — slicker, craftier, jazzier. He has also become more resilient. There was a time, he said, when he thought his career might be finished. In 2013, he tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee while playing for the Atlanta Hawks. In his comeback, he turned to Kenny Atkinson, who was then one of the team’s assistants, to help reassemble his game.Atkinson, now the head coach of the Nets, imbued Williams with the importance of routine.“Kenny is one of my all-time favorite people in the world,” Williams said. “I give him a lot of credit for getting me back on my feet when I was down and out.”By 2015, Williams was the N.B.A.’s sixth man of the year with the Toronto Raptors. But he has never been better, more efficient or more dynamic than he has been in his last two seasons with the Clippers, all at an age — early 30s — when most players see their production begin to erode.Instead, Williams, who has scored more points off the bench than any other player in league history, has only improved. This season, he averaged 20 points and 5.4 assists in just 26.6 minutes a game. Williams also had the ball in his hands more than ever, with the Clippers running 32.4 percent of their plays through him whenever he was on the court, according to usage-rate statistics compiled by Basketball Reference.Coming off the bench was never something that he necessarily wanted to do, but Williams has no doubt that the role has helped preserve his career because it has kept his minutes down. He has averaged 24.6 minutes a game over his 14-year career. (LeBron James, by comparison, has averaged 38.6 minutes.)“It’s given me an opportunity to stretch my career out, and I think I’m in my prime right now, man,” Williams said. “I’m just rolling.”At the same time, Williams has his quirky customs, which help give him a sense of stability, starting with his game-day breakfast: hash browns, egg whites, French toast and chicken sausage along with a fruit smoothie that he sweetens with honey. He loads up because he knows he won’t eat again for a while.“I guess my body’s gotten used to it,” Williams said, who will just do the smoothie if the Clippers have an early tipoff.He also has the peculiar habit of arriving at the arena on the late side, about 90 minutes before the start of the game.“I don’t like idle time,” he said.Once there, though, Williams has an active schedule: 15 minutes in the training room getting stretched out, 10 minutes in the weight room doing exercises with a stretch band and a medicine ball, then about 17 minutes on the court making 150 field goals as Cassell feeds him passes.Before a recent home game ahead of the playoffs, Williams made nearly 80 percent of his attempts, including two skyscraping moonshots from the baseline, which is a shot that he has developed in case a 7-footer lunges at him with his arms extended. Williams says he only practices shots that he will attempt in games, however improbable or acrobatic.“I catch myself at least two or three times a game just putting my hands up, like, ‘How did that even happen?’” Shamet said.Williams wraps up his on-court work with 20 free throws and 10 court-width sprints, then retreats to the locker room to put on his ankle braces and check his phone. “Just to make sure there’s no family emergencies or anything like that,” he said.With 20 minutes on the clock, the Clippers have their team meeting. Before they head to the court, Williams gathers his teammates around him for one final huddle — or rather, they gather around him, as if he has some sort of gravitational pull.Once the game begins, Williams takes a seat on the bench — which is the only time he stops moving. But he is watching his potential defenders and studying the flow, readying himself for the moment when he sheds his warm-ups late in the first quarter.If Cassell can pinpoint one flaw, it might be that Williams commits too many turnovers. He is an excellent passer, especially coming off ball screens — Shamet considers him one of the most underrated passers in the league — but he sometimes tries to do too much, Cassell said. So Cassell will remind Williams to do what he does best: Shoot the ball. It is what everyone wants to see from Williams, who is regarded around the league as a player whom other players love to watch.“It means a lot coming from my peers,” Williams said. “I think as competitors, that’s why we get into this, to gain respect from the guys who have played the game, and you walk away and they say, ‘He was a tough cover — that dude was nice.’”All while being fueled with a hunger of his own creation.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaDENVER — The Denver Nuggets’ worst loss of the season was less than 48 hours old when Tim Connelly, the team’s president of basketball operations, found himself courtside before a game against the Chicago Bulls assessing some lessons of the defeat.“A loss is never a positive,” Connelly said, “but we have to be realistic about where we stand. We’ve done nothing, and that team has done everything several times over.”He was referring to the Golden State Warriors, a superstar collective that has demolished its share of opponents in recent years. But what the Warriors did to the Nuggets one night last week was particularly gruesome, in part because Denver had entered the game with a slim lead over Golden State in the N.B.A.’s Western Conference standings.But then, on Jan. 15, in front of a briefly enthusiastic crowd here, the Warriors scored 51 points in the first quarter and sailed to a 142-111 victory that sent a message to everyone on the opposing bench, inside the building and across the league: We are not going anywhere.It was, for one night at least, illustrative of the gulf that still exists between the Warriors and the rest of the N.B.A. While Golden State’s dominance had led many to despair, the Nuggets entered the game ahead in the standings and hopeful that they were bridging the gap. They came out of it understanding that there is still work to be done.“We got a little comfortable,” Nuggets forward Paul Millsap said. “It was a humbling experience for us.”Still, these are heady times for the Nuggets. They are a colorful crew led by Nikola Jokic, a 23-year-old center from Serbia and former second-round pick who facilitates the offense from the high post. In a league full of chiseled gods, Jokic has the dimensions of a melting iceberg. But at 7 feet and 250 pounds, he is a gifted passer and scorer, and he appears bound for his first All-Star Game.His background — unsung prospect, semi-overlooked — is representative of the roster as a whole. Just one player in the team’s regular rotation, the 21-year-old point guard Jamal Murray, was a top-10 lottery pick.Consider Torrey Craig, a 28-year-old forward who has become a full-time starter. Craig went undrafted out of South Carolina Upstate and was plying his trade for the Gold Coast Rollers of the Queensland Basketball League, a semipro circuit in Australia, before he signed a two-way deal with the Nuggets in 2017.“It makes us all dogs,” the shooting guard Malik Beasley said, “because we’ve been underrated our whole lives.”Millsap, 33 and a former second-round pick himself, sees similarities between the Nuggets and one of his former teams, the Atlanta Hawks, a team with little star power that still finished with the best record in the East in 2015.“Egoless guys,” Millsap said. “Guys who don’t care about getting the credit. Guys who go out there and play the game the right way, and I think that’s where these two teams are very similar. I do think this team is a lot more talented than that team. But that team used every inch of talent and every inch of ability to get things done.”Left unsaid: The Nuggets are not using every inch of their talent — not yet, anyway. In the jargon of the game, they have untapped potential, and this is understandable. The Nuggets are as inexperienced as they are precocious. Seven of the team’s top 11 players right now are 24 or younger, and that does not even include Michael Porter Jr., a 20-year-old forward and the 14th pick of the 2018 draft who is not expected to play this season after undergoing back surgery.Coach Michael Malone has consistently praised his players’ work ethic — effort, he said, is not a problem — but he does want them to be more diligent about their mental preparation.“Know who the hell you’re guarding,” Malone said, adding: “I think the guys on our roster — most teams probably have this issue, where they show up to the game, like, ‘Who are we playing tonight?’ And they haven’t done their work, which to me is like a cardinal sin. So we have to do a better job of understanding: Who am I playing? What are his tendencies? And how can I take those away?”In the locker room before the Bulls game, Malone reiterated how much work his staff puts into scouting reports before asking his players what they planned to offer that night in return. Jokic, Malone later recalled, told him he would be aggressive. Murray said he would play hard. As far as pregame chalk talks go, it was boilerplate stuff. But the conversation had added import given the events of the week.“This is part of our journey,” Malone said.Malone got a keener sense of that process from 2011 to 2013, as an assistant with the Warriors under Mark Jackson when Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson were young players learning how to be pros. The Warriors went 23-43 in a lockout-shortened season. But by the 2012-13 season, Curry and Thompson were forming winning habits. Malone recalled a seven-game road trip when the Warriors went 6-1, with their only loss coming against the Orlando Magic after the team spent an extra night in Miami (and perhaps that was no coincidence). But the trip was otherwise an unqualified success.“I think that’s when we, as a team and as an organization said, ‘Man, we have a chance to be pretty good,’ ” he said.The Nuggets have had moments like that this season — beating the Raptors in Toronto on Dec. 3 was a big deal — but they still have a lot of work ahead, Malone said.“We’re a young team that is trying to become a playoff team, and once you become a playoff team, you hope to become a championship team,” Malone said. “You can’t skip steps.”Since Malone was hired by the Nuggets in 2015, they have improved each season, from 33 wins in 2015-16, to 40 wins in 2016-17, to 46 wins last season, when they narrowly missed the playoffs. Malone signed a two-year extension over the summer, and the Nuggets are now on a pace to win 56 games. Their last playoff appearance came in 2013.No less an eminence than Kevin Durant, who, to be fair, joined the Warriors a year after they had won their first championship of the Curry/Thompson era, praised the Nuggets organization.“Continuity,” Durant said. “You don’t fire your coach after a losing season. You’re patient with him. You’re patient with your young players. You let them make mistakes, let them grow.”In the wake of Denver’s loss to the Warriors last week, Malone was pleased to see a renewed commitment to defense in wins over the Bulls and the Cleveland Cavaliers. It was already clear that the team’s loss to Golden State had been something of a formative experience.“It was probably the best thing that could have happened to us,” Millsap said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Britni de la CretazJumbotron proposals have become as much a part of baseball as the seventh-inning stretch — no matter that they are often considered tacky and in bad taste.When a proposal appears on the giant screen, a large segment of sports Twitter world (mostly women) chime in about how they hope no one ever proposes to them at a sporting event. Still, hundreds of these public, grandiose gestures happen every year and many proposees walk out of the stadium happily ever after.On March 31, 2018, Joanna Chan, who works for Netflix, proposed to her girlfriend of five years, Julie Morris, who is employed at Hulu. The moment happened during the first period of a Calgary Flames game and was shown on the giant screen at Scotiabank Saddledome — known as the Enmax Energy Board — home to the National Hockey League’s Flames.Ms. Chan and Ms. Morris, both 36 and living in Los Angeles (since married and now both going by Chan-Morris), had just embarked on a five-year tour of all 31 N.H.L. arenas, and the Saddledome was their final stop.Joanna Chan-Morris says that a few stops before their final one, she knew she wanted to propose in Calgary. “It’s not about the public aspect of the proposal, really,” she said. “It was really just about making that last game special.”Even still, with that gesture, their engagement became a viral sensation, traveling beyond the area and onto the internet. Joanna paid 5,000 Canadian dollars ($3,782) for the opportunity, which she says was “worth every penny.”The Saddledome is far from the only sports arena that gives fans the option to propose on a really big TV screen in front of thousands. Fenway Park, home of the Boston Red Sox, does 50 to 60 live, in-game proposals each season at a cost of $350 each. At Dodger Stadium, getting engaged onscreen will set you back $5,000, an event the team estimates happens two or three times a season.The National Basketball Association’s Atlanta Hawks do several proposals a season, and the New York Knicks have a $500 proposal package for purchase. The Knicks have had “seven completed proposals so far this season,” the team said, and the package includes a split screen with video of the proposal on one side and your written message (“So-and-so, will you marry me?”) on the other. Most teams request that the payment come in the form of a donation to the team’s charity. Some sports organizations, though, like the Boston Celtics, don’t provide the option to propose on their giant screen at all.Even though sports fans come from all genders, there’s an assumption that mostly men will be viewing the proposal, including the players. “Sports stadiums are not gender-neutral territory,” said Dr. Leslie Bell, the author of “Hard to Get: Twenty-Something Women and the Paradox of Sexual Freedom” (University of California Press, 2018). Just like rooting for your favorite team to win, she said, a woman saying yes to a proposal can be viewed as a sort of victory.The whole concept irks Jessica Kleinschmidt, a content producer/reporter at NBC Sports Bay Area and a self-proclaimed “hater of in-game proposals.”“It’s as if this person needs to show these complete strangers they love this person by making a show out of it,” Ms. Kleinschmidt said. “Needing validation from complete strangers? Go on Twitter if you want to do that.”Also, she noted, an in-game proposal “puts the woman under pressure to say yes.”When those traditional gender dynamics are reversed, the public response can be cruel.In 2014, a woman surprised her boyfriend by proposing to him at an N.B.A. game. At the time, she told Fox 5 DC, “I thought this would make me the best wife-to-be ever to do it in front of his favorite team.” Her fiancé seemed happy she asked. But the response online was less than kind, with the frequently misogynist sports and culture website Barstool Sports calling it “the absolute worst proposal of all time,” among other worse things. Another blogger wrote that he would “never want to be proposed to by my girlfriend, and at an N.B.A. game no less, not in a million years.”When Jumbotron proposals go wrong, spectators take an almost perverse pleasure in the rejection. In 2017, a rejected proposal at Fenway Park resulted in the entire ballpark chanting, “She said no!” (Jasmine Guillory’s newest novel, aptly named “The Proposal,” opens with a rejected proposal at Dodger Stadium that goes viral on the internet.)This virality is something that more and more Jumbotron proposers are experiencing now that social media is a thing and everyone in the stadium has a smartphone, or the teams broadcast feel-good content across their various platforms.What is it about our culture’s ideas about love, romance and marriage that allowed the phenomenon to gain traction in the first place? “Romantic comedies,” Chloe Angyal wrote for Buzzfeed in 2015, “teach us that the truer a true love is, the grander and more public the public grand gesture will be.”It’s hard to know when the gimmick originated, but it had to be sometime after video screens were installed in stadiums; Dodger Stadium was among the first, in 1980. But the technology has given rise to an entire industry of what Laurie Essig, the author of “Love, Inc.: Dating Apps, the Big White Wedding, and Chasing the Happily Neverafter” (University of California Press, 2019) calls “spectacular proposals.”Jumbotron proposals are, of course, grandiose gestures, broadcasting love and commitment onto a giant screen for tens of thousands, and now, with the advent of social media, millions of eyes to consume. They are larger than life. “I just thought it would make it that much more special,” to put it on the Jumbotron instead of just proposing in the concourse, said Tyler Garrison, 40, who proposed to his now-husband, Ty Fleming, at Nationals Park in 2017. Mr. Garrison and Mr. Fleming, 35, live in Washington and are season ticket holders, which is why Mr. Garrison says he thought the big proposal would be “creating a special moment that we can have for the rest of our lives.”Mr. Garrison never imagined that the moment would be viewed millions of times across the internet. He had planned the proposal with help from a friend, Robert York, a board member of Athlete Ally, a nonprofit athletic advocacy group. It was one of the first same-sex marriage proposals on a screen at a Major League Baseball game.When the Chan-Morrises got engaged in Calgary last year, Joanna says the team was initially concerned that her request was a prank or a desire to make a political statement. But after she persuaded them that she just wanted to get engaged — something a straight couple would almost never have to prove — the moment was one of the most touching Jumbotron proposals in recent memory. It similarly went viral, and the response was mostly enthusiastic.Responses to these same sex engagements were overwhelmingly positive perhaps because they run contrary to who typically gets engaged at sporting events.But heartwarming feedback is not always the case. Marlyn Sanchez said she made the mistake of reading the comments under the YouTube video of her proposal at Marlins Park last year, and “people were so mean.” Ms. Sanchez, a 37-year-old curriculum support specialist for Miami-Dade County Public Schools and also a singer, had sung the national anthem at the ballpark before, which gave her now-fiancé, Rafael Cabrera, an “in” with the team. She was contacted and asked to come back and perform, and to throw the first pitch. Unbeknown to her, the person who caught the ball was Mr. Cabrera. He walked over, got down on one knee, and proposed. (The two plan to marry in May.)Commenters joked that, because of the low attendance at Miami Marlins games, it appeared like Mr. Cabrera had rented out the entire stadium for her. Other people jabbed that it must have taken guts to propose in front of tens of people.Mr. Cabrera, 35, was a former minor league ballplayer, and even though Ms. Sanchez says she isn’t necessarily a Marlins fan, the proposal was perfect because it was “totally him.” Even though they had never talked about the idea of public proposals, Ms. Sanchez says Mr. Cabrera would always say to her: “Don’t even give me any hints of what you want, because I’m gonna do it in my own way and that’s that.”Although Ms. Sanchez says she has “thick skin” when it comes to criticism, in part because she’s a performer, getting engaged in such a public way invites feedback from viewers that not everyone will take in stride the way she did.But for Julie Chan-Morris, when Joanna proposed to her in front of nearly 20,000 people in the Saddledome, she says it was surprisingly intimate. “It sounds crazy because there was so many people who were in attendance at the Saddledome that night,” she said, “but it was as if it was just us for a moment.”She also understands the criticism levied at people who get engaged on Jumbotrons. “I think that, honestly, had Joanna just randomly done a public proposal,” Julie said, “I don’t think I would’ve been into it. But it was completely justified because of where we were,” with the arena tour.Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Consider the following scenes from the N.B.A.’s annual bacchanal/business convention known as All-Star weekend:Spike Lee standing on a street corner waiting for the crosswalk signal. Stan Kroenke, whose family owns the Denver Nuggets, holding court in a hotel lobby. Joel Embiid, the star center of the Philadelphia 76ers, making small talk with the governor of North Carolina. An army of personal stylists waiting to be summoned by their clients for some of the flashiest events of the year.And then there were the agents and league officials and sneakerheads and reporters, some of whom traveled great distances to make unconventional requests of the weekend’s main attractions.“Shout out to my fans in Mongolia!” John Collins of the Atlanta Hawks yelled into a camera the morning before his appearance in the Saturday slam dunk contest.[Slam Dunk Contest: Hamidou Diallo’s Dunk Is Even Better Viewed Frame by Frame]All-Star weekend tends to be a blend of basketball and branding, business and pleasure — a showcase for a powerful league whose global influence continues to expand.“The whole weekend,” Mike Conley of the Memphis Grizzlies said, “is just a big party.”The All-Star Game itself, scheduled for Sunday night, felt secondary to just about everything else in the host city, as it has for many years. Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets, recalled waiting in line in 2006 for one of the more popular parties at All-Star weekend in Houston, where he watched Maciej Lampe — a center from Poland who appeared in 64 career games over parts of three seasons — bypass the line so that he could immediately be waved inside by security.“And I’m like, ‘Man, I’m behind Maciej Lampe?’” said Morey, who would officially join the front office of the Rockets a little more than six weeks later.All-Star weekend has only grown in recent years. One spreadsheet making the rounds in Charlotte listed more than 100 parties, and that did not include many of the more exclusive events. (Michael Jordan hosted a big one.) Thanks to a change in the league schedule, there is more partying and less deal-making than there used to be.Last year, the league moved the trade deadline up so that it preceded All-Star weekend. In the past, the deadline came a few days after the game, a sequence which helped create its share of absurdity. One of the more notorious examples came in 2017, when word leaked during the fourth quarter of the All-Star Game that the New Orleans Pelicans had struck a deal to acquire DeMarcus Cousins from the Sacramento Kings. Cousins learned of the trade during postgame interviews.The weekend vibe is different now.“It’s so much more fun,” one prominent agent said at a party that he hosted.In the corner, a disc jockey who appeared to be in his 60s spun tunes in a Hawaiian shirt and red-tinted glasses, while women wearing bright red dresses passed out hors d’oeuvres. Agents, clients and marketing honchos milled about the room.But none of this is meant to suggest that deals do not get done.On Thursday night, at a downtown hotel bar where patrons sipped $25 cocktails, a crowd of very tall men gathered as a private event wound down at a nearby steakhouse. Among the luminaries who emerged from the event: Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner; Kroenke, who also owns the Los Angeles Rams; Brian Rolapp, the N.F.L.’s chief media and business officer; Bill Simmons, the founder of The Ringer; Connor Schell, ESPN’s executive vice president for content; and Bob Myers, the general manager of the Golden State Warriors.“There are definitely conversations happening,” Morey said. “And there’s serendipity involved. You’re always bumping into people.”Morey was finishing lunch at an upscale restaurant. Warren LeGarie, a longtime agent to many coaches and executives, and Kiki Vandeweghe, the league’s executive vice president for basketball operations, were dining at nearby tables. Morey was about to head into a meeting with Vandeweghe and Monty McCutchen, who supervises the league’s referees.“Obviously, we care deeply about where the league is going,” Morey said, “so talking to Adam Silver about strategy or Monty McCutchen about changing how they might call certain things — all that kind of stuff could impact our franchise moving forward, so I try to be involved.”The atmosphere may seem more relaxed than it was two years ago, when most team executives and agents were focused on the trade deadline, but the shift in the schedule has not pushed aside the league’s most pressing issues.In Charlotte, a cloud loomed over the festivities, and it came in the shape of a unibrow.Perhaps you have heard? Anthony Davis, the star center for the Pelicans, requested a trade 10 days before the deadline.The Pelicans, though, rejected all trade offers for him and instead hope to reap better players and draft picks in a deal this summer. Last week, Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry called the drama of it all a “dumpster fire.” On Friday, the Pelicans fired their general manager. On Saturday, Davis told reporters that his list of preferred destinations included the Knicks and the Los Angeles Lakers. Hours later, Silver said he would like trade demands and discussions to remain behind closed doors.In any case, the Davis situation only underscored how much the topic of player movement dominates the league — even in the middle of the season, and even after the trade deadline. Everyone here was fixated on what could happen just over four months from now — at the start of free agency.Will Kevin Durant leave the Warriors? Will Kawhi Leonard spurn the Toronto Raptors? Will Kyrie Irving bolt from the Boston Celtics? And, again, what about Davis?“No one likes to see an instance,” Silver said, “where a player is demanding that he be traded when he’s still in the middle of a contractual obligation to a team.”Silver made those remarks, and his wish for private trade discussions, at a news conference before Saturday night’s skills, dunk and 3-point competitions.The media forum, like the carefully coordinated outfits stars wore to events around town, has become part of the event’s routine. So has the roll call of courtside A-listers during the dunk contest; this year’s included the rappers Quavo, 2 Chainz, J. Cole and Gucci Mane.All-Star weekend was not always so structured — or extravagant. Paul Westphal recalled making his first trip to an All-Star Game in 1977 as a guard for the Phoenix Suns. The league hosted a modest dinner. Players received commemorative mugs. Anyone associated with the game stayed at the same hotel in downtown Milwaukee.“It wasn’t like it is now where the game takes over the whole city,” Westphal said.Kareem Abdul-Jabbar missed practice, Westphal said, then showed up about 20 minutes before the start of the game in a fur coat. Westphal helped seal his team’s win with a late steal against Pete Maravich. It was a moment he said he would never forget.This weekend, Westphal was in Charlotte, where he was named a finalist for the Basketball Hall of Fame. He said he was not planning to attend any parties.“Just dinner with friends,” he said.In Charlotte, the streets around the host arena, Spectrum Center, were choked with traffic. Concert fliers hung from every lamppost. And none of the guests, spread among numerous hotels at premium nightly rates, seemed to mind the cold weather as countless lines formed for restaurants, bars and pop-up musical performances.Given all the extracurriculars, it was easy to forget that basketball was the only reason anyone was here in the first place — and perhaps that was because the only legitimate basketball was being played in a college gymnasium a few miles from downtown. A group of elite teenage prospects, without much fanfare, had convened for the league’s annual Basketball Without Borders Global Camp.In all, 63 boys and girls from 31 countries played in front of scouts and executives who hoped to identify the sport’s next batch of stars.“There’s a lot of talent here,” said Brooks Meek, the N.B.A.’s vice president for international basketball operations.The spotlight will find them soon enough.Kevin Draper and Marc Stein contributed reporting.Advertisement
Maybe they were never going to win a championship this season, even with LeBron James, but they were not supposed to be this bad. What happened?CreditCreditHarry How/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Marc SteinThe arrival of LeBron James as their latest in a succession of superstar imports was supposed to halt the longest period of suffering in the Los Angeles Lakers’ California history.What James and the Lakers have experienced instead will be remembered as the most disappointing season of James’s career — because it will extend a stubborn playoff drought that has flummoxed the N.B.A.’s most glamorous franchise.Not even James’s presence could prevent a sixth straight missed postseason for the new Lakers, who are mere days from being mathematically eliminated from the playoffs entering Sunday’s visit to Madison Square Garden to face the Knicks. The Lakers, remember, missed the playoffs only four times in their first 53 seasons after relocating from Minneapolis in the 1960-61 season.So much for Hollywood fairy tales.Perhaps expectations for this team were unrealistically high, given the modest quality of James’s supporting cast in Year 1, but his Lakerland debut was never supposed to veer this far off-script for a once-in-a-generation player. What follows is a breakdown of how things fell apart — in six stages.Without warning, on July 1, 2018, the first night of N.B.A. free agency, James announced through a 39-word news release that he was signing a four-year, $154 million contract with the Lakers.Yet the ensuing celebration did not last even 24 hours.On July 2, Golden State boldly swiped some of the Lakers’ thunder by signing the former All-Star big man DeMarcus Cousins to a bargain deal. The Lakers then spent the next week scouring the league for the best players willing to sign one-year contracts — thereby preserving salary-cap flexibility for the summer of 2019 and their planned pursuit of an All-Star sidekick for James.The problem: Magic Johnson and Rob Pelinka, the Lakers’ nascent front-office power duo, signed a slew of nonshooters and, shall we say, mercurial personalities who, as a group, prompted instant second-guessing.The Lakers countered the skepticism by insisting that playmakers and playoff-tested veterans, rather than shooting specialists who could open up space on the floor, would ease LeBron’s burden and potentially even match up well with the mighty Warriors — only to see their signees do little to hush the told-you-so crowd. JaVale McGee, the veteran center, initially exceeded expectations, but the quartet of Rajon Rondo, Lance Stephenson, Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Michael Beasley proved as collectively ineffective as feared.Perhaps we should have known that this was not going to be the usual LeBron season when a fight broke out between a number of Lakers and Houston Rockets in James’s first home game at Staples Center.And the tension never really let up.After just eight games — five of them losses — Johnson summoned Coach Luke Walton for a pointed lecture about the Lakers’ sluggish start. The team’s legendary point-guard-turned-team president never intended for the meeting or any details to leak to the news media, but they promptly did in the no-secrets world of the N.B.A.Johnson immediately tried to play down suggestions that Walton’s job was already in jeopardy, in an interview with The Los Angeles Times, but he would not go further than proclaiming that Walton was “going to finish the season, unless something drastic happens, which it won’t.”Walton is certainly not blameless in the Lakers’ struggles. His lineups, rotations and responsibility for L.A.’s worrisome drop to No. 22 leaguewide in offensive efficiency have routinely been questioned. Management, furthermore, is said to be dismayed by Walton’s refusal to hire a seasoned former head coach as his top assistant — something young coaches (Walton is 38) frequently do.Yet the public nature of the heat Walton took from his own front office made Johnson look impatient and, worse, ramped up the pressure on everyone in the Lakers’ locker room — especially the coach — before they even made it to Thanksgiving. With two years left on a five-year deal, Walton is widely expected to be shoved out of his toasty seat for good at season’s end.What can be classified as the best day of the Lakers’ season, if you only considered the box score, is also bound to be remembered as this season’s low point.The Lakers went to Oakland on Christmas Day for a game in the most anticipated television time slot on the regular-season calendar and throttled the two-time defending champion Warriors. The 127-101 rout capped an 18-9 surge that nudged L.A.’s record to 20-14, good for a promising fourth in the dauntingly deep Western Conference.But James strained his left groin as he stretched to retrieve a loose ball in the third quarter. The Lakers gradually pulled away without him — and James optimistically posted to Twitter the next day about how he “dodged a bullet,” with a #BackInNoTime hashtag — but the injury turned out to be the most serious he had ever sustained.James eventually missed 17 games. No previous injury had ever sidelined him longer than the eight games he lost to a back injury in 2014-15. The Lakers went 6-11 without James and, even accounting for all of their missteps before and after LeBron went down, can rightly point to suddenly losing their star as the biggest blow to the team’s playoff hopes.It remains unclear how #BackInNoTime turned into six weeks on the sideline for James. An inevitability given his age (34)? The byproduct of the Lakers playing at a much faster pace than LeBron’s Cleveland teams? A freak occurrence?Maybe it was a combination of all those factors.What’s clear, though, is that the Lakers’ overall poor health has consistently hurt them.The Lakers, for starters, are 6-15 since Jan. 19, when Lonzo Ball, who had begun to impress James as their starting point guard, sustained a serious ankle injury. And there’s more.Tyson Chandler, the veteran center who made such an impact defensively after joining the team Nov. 6, is dealing with a neck ailment. Josh Hart, the promising second-year guard, has been plagued by tendinitis in his left knee for months. And Brandon Ingram, the swingman with tantalizing potential as a scorer, missed several games with ankle and shoulder problems before he was ruled out for the rest of the season recently with deep venous thrombosis.In real time, only 11 days elapsed between New Orleans forward Anthony Davis’s trade request going public on Jan. 28 and the league’s Feb. 7 trade deadline. But that surely felt like an eternity for the Lakers’ quartet of starlets: Ingram, Ball, Hart and Kyle Kuzma.Especially since the fallout is continuing.From the minute James arrived in Hollywood, after the Lakers made unsuccessful trade runs at Paul George and Kawhi Leonard, it was known that the team would try to trade for Davis — which meant all four of L.A.’s top young players were destined to hear their names in trade speculation. Yet the leaguewide consensus was that Davis would not be made available until at least the 2019 off-season, theoretically giving the starlets an opportunity to build something with James — and maybe even change management’s mind about looking externally for LeBron’s superstar sidekick.But Davis’s trade request changed everything. Rich Paul, LeBron’s agent and longtime friend, became Davis’s agent in September and was widely perceived to have made the trade request on Davis’s behalf to get him to Los Angeles. A seemingly ceaseless stream of leaked Lakers offers thereafter irreparably fractured the locker room, no matter how hard Paul pushed back against that narrative.Nor can the team fully move on from the trade drama, because everyone knows the front office will be back on the phones with New Orleans soon, trying to beat out the Boston Celtics’ package for Davis once the Pelicans start fielding offers for him anew.A Feb. 12 road loss to the Atlanta Hawks was the Lakers’ fourth in five games entering the All-Star break and lowered their record to 28-29. James emerged from the break insisting that he would shift into playoff mode far earlier than normal — “It’s been activated,” LeBron promised — but the Lakers promptly lost road games to the Davis-less Pelicans and the draft-minded Memphis Grizzlies after a hope-building home win against the Houston Rockets.The season effectively ended March 2 in Phoenix, when the Lakers lost to a Suns team in the midst of a 1-18 funk. The defeat meant L.A. had fallen to five of the league’s six teams which currently have sub-.400 winning percentages (Chicago is the only exception). The loss was soon followed by announcements that Ball and Ingram would be held out of the Lakers’ remaining games — and that James’s minutes would be reduced.James was held out of Friday’s game against the Detroit Pistons via the increasingly popular leaguewide synonym for rest — “load management.” LeBron’s load, of course, is about to become lighter in April, May and June than anyone expected.These Lakers were never a lock to reach the playoffs in the loaded West, but the overwhelming majority of league observers and Las Vegas oddsmakers — who largely pegged them as a 48-win team — figured LeBron would find a way. He has instead absorbed criticism for spotty leadership and intermittent engagement with his new team as he prepares for life as a playoff spectator for the first time since his second N.B.A. season (2004-5).Last summer, when he was still preaching patience, Johnson did say that he would need two off-seasons to assemble a true contender even if the Lakers were fortunate enough to land LeBron. “Next summer, if nobody comes and I’m sitting here like this, then it’s a failure,” Magic said at the time.But spring has barely sprung — and next summer is already here for the Lakers and James. Sooner than they ever envisioned, Magic, Pelinka and Jeanie Buss, the Lakers’ owner, are on the clock to make moves that lead to a honeymoon that lasts.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballThe Mavericks rookie is drawing LeBron James comparisons and has “fast-forwarded” his team’s decision-making.By Marc SteinDALLAS — Dirk Nowitzki has seen many things in his 21 seasons with the Dallas Mavericks. What he had never seen, until last month, was a fellow Maverick who could attract nearly two dozen autograph seekers in subzero temperatures to greet the team bus on a Thursday morning in Detroit.Luka Doncic did just that in the 2 a.m. hour of Jan. 31, as the Mavericks pulled into a hotel adjacent to the world headquarters of General Motors, on the unglamorous end of a back-to-back set that began in New York.It is likewise safe to presume that none of Nowitzki’s other 197 teammates over two decades in Dallas could have inspired what happened mere hours later. In a swift-moving blockbuster trade, Dallas acquired Kristaps Porzingis from the Knicks to serve as Doncic’s sidekick, with Mavericks General Manager Donnie Nelson openly admitting that he pushed for the deal because Doncic has “fast-forwarded a lot of our decision-making.”These are the tales from just one day, albeit maybe the wildest day, of what Nowitzki frequently refers to as Lukamania.“When we get to cities now, even late at night, there are so many people waiting with things for him to sign that it’s almost like we’re the Warriors,” Nowitzki said. “Lukamania is real. We’re living it every day.”[Another Rookie: The Perimeter Can’t Protect You From Mitchell Robinson]This week brings another milestone for Doncic, who celebrates his 20th birthday on Thursday. He is averaging 20.9 points, 7.2 rebounds and 5.7 assists through 56 games and is responsible for four of the five triple-doubles in N.B.A. history recorded by teenagers. It is a start that has quickly validated Nelson’s long-held belief that Doncic possessed superstar potential.The only other rookie in league history to hit those levels over a full season was Oscar Robertson in 1960-61.“I love, love, love guys that can pass the ball,” Nelson said, prioritizing Doncic’s ability to run a team at 6 feet 7 inches over the fact he is already known for having the league’s second-most-feared step-back jump shot, behind only James Harden’s.“I knew I could play over here,” Doncic said, “but it’s better than I expected, for sure.”The gaudy numbers and worldwide interest in his exploits enabled Doncic to amass more than four million votes in N.B.A. All-Star balloting, trailing only LeBron James and Giannis Antetokounmpo. Doncic, in other words, finished higher in leaguewide balloting than Michael Jordan (fifth) did as a rookie. Higher, too, than James (13th) and even Yao Ming, who could manage only the fourth-highest total in 2003 despite the considerable voting might of Yao’s native China.Doncic’s instant production has also validated every pundit who insisted, amid no shortage of skepticism, that concerns about Doncic’s athleticism and corresponding ability to deal with the length of N.B.A. defenders were folly given the rampant success he achieved both at the club (Real Madrid) and national team (Slovenia) levels as an 18-year-old. In the process, Doncic has unleashed a torrent of second-guessing upon the teams (Phoenix, Sacramento and Atlanta) that let him slip to the Mavericks. Yet Doncic insists his maiden N.B.A. season, which appears destined to be christened with the league’s rookie of the year trophy, has not been as easy it looks.The Mavericks, you see, were 26-34 entering Wednesday night’s home date with Indiana and likely to miss the playoffs for a third consecutive season. They have traded away all four of Doncic’s projected fellow starters (Dennis Smith Jr., DeAndre Jordan, Wes Matthews and Harrison Barnes) in deals that netted Porzingis and roughly $30 million in salary-cap space, neither of which can help the team this season.It is the first time in Doncic’s life, since he took up basketball at age 7, that he has experienced losing. One hint of how well he’s coping with it: Doncic has pulled his jersey apart in frustration after a play gone awry — twice.“It’s harder than people think,” Doncic said.“He’s a winner — he won everything in Europe,” Juancho Hernangomez of the Denver Nuggets said. “So every time he loses, he gets so mad.”Hernangomez has been observing Doncic from close range for years, both on the floor — since Doncic played alongside Hernangomez’s brother, Charlotte’s Willy Hernangomez, at Real Madrid — and through their shared WhatsApp chat room, which houses various European players fond of the popular video game Fortnite. But Mavericks officials are not worried about a scouting report from a friend that paints Doncic as a sore loser.“He doesn’t handle losing well — I know that for a fact,” Dallas Coach Rick Carlisle said. “But I don’t handle losing well, either.”As recently as May 15, Mavericks executives were worried about Doncic — big time. Having known for more than a year that they wanted to draft him if they had the chance, team officials were crestfallen in Chicago when Dallas slipped from a projected No. 3 in that night’s draft lottery to No. 5. “It was devastating for us,” Nelson said. “We thought our chance to get him was gone because it’s really hard to trade up in the lottery.” Nowitzki betrayed a public hint of the organization’s disappointment when he tweeted this reaction: “Of course.”To move up high enough, Dallas ultimately had to persuade the Atlanta Hawks to surrender the No. 3 overall pick. It cost Dallas both the No. 5 pick, which Atlanta used to take Trae Young, as well as the Mavericks’ top pick in the 2019 draft. But the Dallas owner, Mark Cuban, blessed the deal, even at that price, because Nelson lobbied so hard for it. Five years earlier, during the 2013 draft, Nelson and his longtime international scout, Tony Ronzone, pushed for the Mavericks to use the No. 13 pick on a little-known Greek teenager named Giannis Antetokounmpo. Cuban wouldn’t allow it, given that Antetokounmpo, unlike Doncic, was mostly a mystery — and promptly regretted it as Antetokounmpo blossomed into a star in Milwaukee.So this time, after the disappointment of the lottery, Cuban blessed Nelson to do whatever it took to land Doncic. What the team got was the son of a former Slovene pro — Sasa Doncic — and a veteran of three full seasons in the EuroLeague and Spain’s La Liga with Real Madrid after Luka Doncic made his pro debut at 16.To the Mavericks’ delight, Doncic was more N.B.A.-ready than they ever dreamed — as his 16-for-29 shooting in the final three minutes of one-possession games this season would suggest. As Carlisle put it: “Unique background, unique skill set, unique body type.”“I hesitate to throw out names like LeBron James and Magic Johnson, who have been do-everything kind of stars, but it’s pretty clear now that Luka has many of those same traits and has proven that he can do a lot of those things,” Carlisle said. “He has deceptive size, strength and quickness — and an understanding beyond his years on how to use his body to make plays and draw fouls.”Carlisle is hardly alone in making such lofty comparisons. Miami’s Dwyane Wade, one of the league’s foremost James experts after their four seasons together with the Heat, has called Doncic’s passing “LeBron-like.” Los Angeles Clippers Coach Doc Rivers said of Doncic: “He’s my favorite player to watch almost, and not talking just rookies. First of all, he plays with a great joy — I love that. And he’s just so advanced in the way he plays. The sky’s the limit for him. Wait until he gets in shape.”Rivers was laughing when he tacked on that last line, but he did hit on a prime area of Year 1 concern with Doncic — conditioning.The Mavericks and Doncic’s representatives, headed by the longtime N.B.A. agent Bill Duffy, agreed shortly after the draft to impose as much rest on Doncic as possible from July through September after a nonstop run at the highest levels of international basketball for nearly a year. Doncic thus began the season heavier than his listed weight of 218 and has absorbed jibes about his diet ever since.But Mavericks officials are pleased with the gradual changes in Doncic’s dietary habits. At the team’s behest, Doncic hired a chef in December to prepare a number of meals for pregame and off-night consumption. Doncic has also begun working fresh juices into his routine.In Madrid, Doncic lived for the past two and a half years with his mother, Mirjam Poterbin, who raised Doncic while running two beauty salons in Ljubljana. (Doncic has long declined to discuss his father.)In Dallas, mom and son live separately near the American Airlines Center as Doncic grows into his independence, but still within walking distance.“This was his dream,” Poterbin said. “At 7 years old he was already talking about N.B.A. I cry a lot of times.”Yet there have been Year 1 challenges and disappointments for Doncic amid the Lukamania — and beyond the ever-present adjustment to playing for a team with scant postseason prospects.He watched helplessly as his fellow Spanish-speaking teammate J.J. Barea suffered a season-ending Achilles’ tear in January. He lived through his first big trade, seeing Dallas abruptly abort its planned Doncic/Smith Jr. partnership when the chance arose to acquire his pal Porzingis.“I was shocked,” Doncic said. “Europe doesn’t work like this.”Doncic has also struggled at times with his free throws, converting just 72.6 percent this season despite proving so adept at getting to the line (6.4 times per game). Mom, meanwhile, admitted that Doncic was “quite sad at first” about missing out on an All-Star spot because of a format change in which fan balloting, as of last season, only accounts for 50 percent of the equation for determining starters.The good news: These all rank as welcome tests — even the Mavericks’ sub-.500 record — compared to the early hurdles posed by the transition Doncic faced at 13. That was his tender age when Doncic left his mother back in Slovenia to enter the Real Madrid academy.“There are no words to describe this, really,” Poterbin said. “Honestly I would not go through it again.”“It was way harder,” Doncic said, “than coming from Madrid to here.”Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byThe city’s restaurant scene has evolved since the last Super Bowl here. So look beyond downtown, enjoy the diversity and don’t forget breakfast.By Kim SeversonATLANTA — In 2000, the last time this city hosted the Super Bowl, the St. Louis Rams beat the Tennessee Titans, and Watershed had been frying its famous fried chicken in lard and sweet butter flavored with country ham for only a year.The new Southern food movement that the restaurant in nearby Decatur helped define had not yet moved North. Brooklynites weren’t worshiping biscuits, and American barbecue had not met kimchi. Only a few cooks or writers outside the South were giving serious thought to the connection between Southern food and that of West Africa.Even here, in the booming cultural and commercial center of the American South, diners had only begun to embrace a style of cooking that emphasized seasonality and history over carbohydrates and caricature. Atlanta’s most popular restaurants were local chains dipped in the glitzy, corporate sheen of the Buckhead neighborhood, and high-end steakhouses like Ruth’s Chris and Morton’s were abundant.Now, as the city prepares to show off its new $1.5 billion Mercedes-Benz Stadium on Sunday, when the New England Patriots meet the Los Angeles Rams, Atlanta is a more evolved food town than it was then.Neighborhood beer bars and slick suburban dining rooms alike serve food that shows off Southern agriculture. Food from the region’s vast immigrant population is as celebrated as its local classics.Although diners remain loyal to local entrepreneurs like Fifth Group Restaurants, which started opening reliable spots like South City Kitchen in the 1990s, the city is less impressed by carpetbagging chains. And the ranks of talented young cooks tired of trying to compete in bigger cities continue to grow.Still, Atlanta has yet to find its footing among the nation’s great restaurant cities. Wyatt Williams, who recently quit reviewing restaurants for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, wrote in a parting column this month in Atlanta magazine that the dining scene was in a rut, riding an economic boom that has spawned cynical, money-grabbing restaurants “where the rooms are finely appointed, the menus are deeply predictable, and the cooking is barely passable.”Stephen Satterfield, a former sommelier in San Francisco who founded the food magazine Whetstone, grew up in Atlanta. During a recent trip home, he described Atlanta as an insecure food town, obsessed with how it measures up against cities with outsize culinary reputations.“It pains me to say it, but here everyone is well-intentioned and there is plenty of capital and resources, so I don’t understand why there aren’t more places that feel of the moment,” he said.Plenty of Atlanta chefs and diners would disagree, albeit politely. The trick, they advise visitors, is drilling down into the right parts of town.“You’ve got to get out of downtown,” said the chef Kevin Gillespie, a former Top Chef contestant who has three restaurants here. “Get in your Uber and go to a neighborhood. That’s where you’ll find the great stuff. You’re going to leave the city with a completely different idea of what Atlanta really is.”Of all the local chefs scrambling to be part of the Super Bowl, Mr. Gillespie is the M.V.P. He runs Gamechanger, a concession inside the Mercedes-Benz Stadium, where his “closed on Sunday” chicken sandwich — a homage to the faith-based policy that keeps Chick-fil-A restaurants shuttered on Sundays, even Super Bowl Sundays — has helped make it the highest-grossing food vendor in the arena.He is also one of three chefs whom Arthur Blank, a founder of Home Depot who bought the Atlanta Falcons in 2002, approved to cook on Thursday for the N.F.L. owners’ dinner, a traditional meal usually held at a fancy restaurant or a well-appointed home. Mr. Blank is staging the dinner at the National Center for Civil and Human Rights, not far from the stadium.“It talks to the history of the city and the great connection the N.F.L. has made with the players around issues surrounding social justice,” Mr. Blank said. “We’ve moved from protest to progress.”(Some critics have complained that all three chefs are white men, though Aaron Jefferson, a general manager from the restaurant Iberian Pig who is African-American, was later added to oversee cocktails and wine.)Mr. Gillespie cautions visitors to not expect a city as explicitly Southern as, say, Charleston, S.C. “It’s not ‘Gone With the Wind’ down here,” he said. “Atlanta is a city that has always been about business. It’s not as ‘Hee Haw’-y as people think it might be.”Rather, Atlanta is a metropolis filled with a lot of people from other places. The city’s population is less than 500,000, but the region, which includes the sprawling suburbs, is home to about 5.9 million. People from small Southern towns have moved here for better jobs, and others from big American cities have come seeking less stress and a lower cost of living. The region’s mix includes immigrants from Mexico, India, South Korea and Vietnam.That influx feeds a mix of cuisines, many of them represented in hundreds of restaurants and markets on Buford Highway, the biggest concentration of which starts at the city’s northeastern edge and continues for about 10 miles. Taking measure of the highway’s offerings is a heroic task, but good resources to consult are We Love BuHi, a website and Instagram feed dedicated to the strip, and the local food writer Christiane Lauterbach’s dispatches on Twitter and in Atlanta magazine. Two favorites are the homey Korean grandma food at Yet Tuh and the terrific sambal-sauced okra and noodle and rice dishes at Food Terminal, a modern Malaysian restaurant that shares a parking lot with an expansive multicultural supermarket, a Chinese barbecue spot, a Viet-Cajun seafood restaurant and a tofu house.Atlanta has rarely met a restaurant trend it didn’t like, and right now that translates to food halls. Some of the best restaurants in town have been carved out of restored industrial spaces. Among them is Watchman’s, in the Krog Street Market, a cheery, Cuban-influenced restaurant that turns sustainably harvested Southern seafood into dishes like grilled fish collars bathed in Alabama white barbecue sauce and dappled with salsa verde. Its perfect daiquiris have developed a loyal following.Next door is the Ticonderoga Club, a cozy restaurant whose menu ranges from 48 ounces of grilled, sous-vide chuck roast to a coconut-braised eggplant dish that the chef David Bies picked up in Bali. Students of the Southern cocktail scene make regular pilgrimages to its tiny bar.The grandest food hall of them all is inside the sprawling brick Ponce City Market, a former Sears distribution center developed into a mixed-use complex by the team that created Chelsea Market in New York.Many of Atlanta’s biggest names in food have a presence here. Hugh Acheson pumps out coffee and fat squares of toast slathered with fresh local cow’s milk cheese and jam at Spiller Park, and Hector Santiago sells a fine medianoche sandwich at El Super Pan. Linton Hopkins (one in the trio of chefs cooking for the N.F.L. owners) offers a stacked cheeseburger at H&F Burger, and fried chicken and biscuits next door at a little stand called Hop’s Chicken.Anne Quatrano, the chef who began Atlanta’s farm-to-table era at her flagship restaurant Bacchanalia 25 years ago, sells fresh Gulf shrimp and oysters at W.H. Stiles Fish Camp.Ms. Quatrano, chairwoman of the James Beard Foundation’s awards committee, remains a levelheaded fan of the city’s food. Like Mr. Gillespie, she says some of the best food is found in modest, neighborhood restaurants.“There’s a lot of young talent here,” she said. “Some of it’s raw, but it’s still good. That makes for really good dining at lot of the smaller places.”One is Banshee, a boisterous restaurant inside a former lesbian bar in the charmingly scruffy East Atlanta neighborhood. Tables are packed with diners who swipe fry bread through smears of pepperoni butter, and debate whether the Sichuan-spiced pork osso buco is better than the braised onion caramelle with braised beef cheeks.At Tiny Lou’s, inside the newly refurbished Hotel Clermont, not far from Ponce City Market, Jeb Aldrich delivers a smart take on French classics, and the pastry chef Claudia Martinez makes a crêpes suzette cake that customers can’t seem to stop talking about.Atlanta also is a big breakfast town, which is why in a few weeks Ms. Quatrano will open Pancake Social, a 120-seat, all-day breakfast place in Ponce City Market. Until then, Java Jive, Highland Bakery and Home Grown, whose pancakes and chili cheese grits are worth enduring the inevitable line, all make for a fine breakfast field trip.And don’t forget Waffle House. The original restaurant in nearby Avondale Estates has been turned into the company’s museum, but there are plenty of others in full operation. (Pro tip: Order your hash browns scattered, smothered and covered, with country ham and a pecan waffle cooked dark on the side.)A hungry visitor also would do well to stroll the Atlanta BeltLine, a 22-mile loop of railroad bed that is slowly being transformed into an urban promenade not unlike the High Line in New York, except with a lot more craft breweries.Along the well-developed section that winds through the Old Fourth Ward, you’ll find Nina & Rafi, a new restaurant that serves a chicken parm that has passed the test of more than one New Yorker, old-fashioned square pizzas topped with sizzling pepperoni cups, and crunchy-crusted Detroit-style pies. Expense-account diners can still get a taste of that Buckhead swank at Atlas, in the St. Regis Atlanta hotel. The chef, Christopher Grossman, has a French Laundry pedigree and the quiet, luxe dining room is hung with masterworks, many of them from the art collection of Joe Lewis, the billionaire behind the Tavistock Group, a private investment company that owns the hotel. Next door is Umi, whose modern take on Japanese food would be at home in New York or Los Angeles.Many visitors will be on the hunt for the kind of Southern food best eaten with your hands. Barbecue is not hard to find here, but Bryan Furman of B’s Cracklin’ Barbecue is the only pit master turning out whole-hog barbecue from heirloom-breed hogs. The Busy Bee Café, a half-mile from the stadium, has been around since the 1940s, and remains a reliable practitioner of the Southern staple known as the meat and three. Go for the oxtails or the fried chicken, and take whichever vegetable sides dishes the server recommends. The new Southern food movement has been nurtured for 10 years at Miller Union, which serves hyper-seasonal dishes alongside the most interesting wine list in town. Or head to Decatur, a small city that abuts Atlanta proper, and try Mr. Gillespie’s Revival, which serves the kind of food your Southern grandmother might make if she shopped only at the farmers’ market.One last piece of advice: Don’t sleep on the wings.“Wings have become a real part of Atlanta culture,” said Deborah VanTrece, the chef and owner of Twisted Soul Cookhouse & Pours. Ms. VanTrece, who will set up a grits bar and make deviled eggs for 3,000 as part of an N.F.L.-sponsored game-day tailgate party, is a former American Airlines flight attendant who used to eat chicken wings that were delivered to the cockpit when flights took the crew to Buffalo.“We thought that was everything, but now wings in Atlanta have taken on a life of their own,” she said. Her daughter, who is 26, has long debates with her friends over which of the dozens of places to get wings is the best.Wings are now so important to the city that the classic Atlanta beer-and-wing spot, J. R. Crickets, was invited to sell them in the State Farm Arena, the home of the Atlanta Hawks, which recently had a $200 million renovation. (Mr. Furman sells his barbecue there, too.)Insiders order lemon pepper wet, a style of wings that got a star turn on the FX series “Atlanta.”“Atlanta is an easy city to underestimate,” Ms. VanTrece said. “Sometimes I think it’s because the South in general gets a bad rap, but compared to 20 years ago, it’s night and day. You just have to make a little effort.”Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.An earlier version of this article misstated some ingredients in the fried chicken at the original Watershed restaurant. The chicken was fried in lard and sweet butter, not peanut oil.Kim Severson is a Southern-based correspondent who covers the nation's food culture and contributes to NYT Cooking. She has written four books and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018 for public service for reporting on workplace sexual harassment.  @kimseverson • Facebook Advertisement
Giannis or Harden for M.V.P.? Who makes the Warriors better: Steph or K.D.? Marc Stein considers these questions and more in the latest edition of his newsletter.Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate for this season’s Most Valuable Player Award.CreditCreditMorry Gash/Associated PressSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to get this newsletter from Marc Stein each week — for free? Sign up here.]As the 2018-19 regular season dribbles to a close, with just two nights and 22 of 1,230 games to go, voters leaguewide are finalizing their year-end award ballots in six major categories. I am no longer one of them, because The New York Times does not permit its reporters to vote for such awards, but it’s still a useful exercise as we take stock of the season to break down each race and who I would have picked.Official selections are due Friday night and there is simply no wrong answer when choosing between Antetokounmpo and Houston’s James Harden for the top spot on the five-man M.V.P. ballot.I have always approached this category by trying to identify who had the best overall season — based on a subjective and imprecise mixture of individual and team success — rather than paying attention to the noise about which player is most widely regarded as the game’s best … or the best two-way player … or any other such designation.So who had the better 2018-19 season? I would go (ever so narrowly) with Giannis. On top of all his individual superlatives, Antetokounmpo has been the face and chief culture-setter in the Bucks’ transformation from 44-win underachiever to the best team in the league (regular-season edition). And his candidacy gets bonus points on our scorecard because Milwaukee, for Eastern Conference supremacy, had to beat out a trio of worthy challengers who were all projected as superior before the season.Harden would be tremendously unlucky to finish second in M.V.P. balloting for the third time in five seasons, but I think that’s where this is headed. He is going to be the first scoring champion (36.1 points per game) to win the scoring title by more than eight points per game since Michael Jordan did over Dominique Wilkins in 1986-87. And I tend to agree with Houston Coach Mike D’Antoni’s contention that Harden is the only player capable of hauling the injury-riddled Rockets to 53 victories out of the 11-14 hole they were in. Harden simply has the misfortune of doing all that damage in a season that belonged to Antetokounmpo and the Bucks.It feels as though I have been writing and tweeting about Doncic and his Atlanta Hawks counterpart Trae Young all season. I suspect I will be writing about the two of them for the next decade-plus. And I’m fine with that.Doncic has had the start-to-finish stronger campaign and continued to look like a franchise player even though the Mavericks steadily increased his Year 1 workload after trading away four-fifths of their starting lineup in February. The trade brought in Kristaps Porzingis and better positions Dallas to build out a supporting cast tailored to their electric European import.Young has delivered even more impressive post-All-Star break production (24.9 points per game and 9.1 assists per game) for a scrappy Hawks team with a passable record of 23-29 since its dismal 6-23 start — and an increasingly bright future.Doncic is going to win the race, but Young overcame his own worrisome launch to make it a competition — and a rivalry that should have staying power — with his second-half surge.Doncic will be remembered as the only rookie in N.B.A. history not named Oscar Robertson to average at least 20 points, 7 rebounds and 5 assists. And Young can take solace in being almost as unfortunate as Harden if he doesn’t win the hardware. It’s quite a compliment when you think about it.Had the Indiana Pacers won 50 games in a season in which Victor Oladipo was healthy enough to play only 36, Nate McMillan would have the résumé to deny the Bucks’ Budenholzer. I’m not sure McMillan is miles off with 47 wins.Doc Rivers of the Los Angeles Clippers, like McMillan, is another victim of bad timing. Rivers hasn’t had a team overachieve like these starless Clippers since his rookie season on the bench with Orlando in 1999-2000 when the Magic won a wholly unexpected 41 games in a season billed as a placeholder before a splashy free-agent summer that ultimately landed Grant Hill and Tracy McGrady in the Magic Kingdom.But Milwaukee’s improvement in Budenholzer’s first season has been so dramatic that I can’t see how he doesn’t win his second Coach of the Year trophy. Perhaps some voters will try to convince themselves that the Bucks would be getting too much love if they vote for both Giannis for M.V.P. and Bud for this honor. But we’re talking about the league’s only 60-win team … and the runaway champions in average point differential for the season (+9.1) … and the only team in the league to rank in the top five in both offensive and defensive efficiency.Antetokounmpo is the biggest reason all that is possible. General Manager Jon Horst is likewise on an impressive run of roster moves. But Budenholzer’s impact has been undeniable.Honorable mentions, along with McMillan and Rivers: Denver’s Mike Malone, Brooklyn’s Kenny Atkinson, Portland’s Terry Stotts, Orlando’s Steve Clifford, Detroit’s Dwane Casey, Golden State’s Steve Kerr and, of course, San Antonio’s Gregg Popovich.Manu Ginobili, who just had his familiar No. 20 retired by the San Antonio Spurs, used to be synonymous with sixth man excellence to me. Ditto for Jamal Crawford.Yet I’d say Williams wears that crown now.The Clippers’ designated scorer won this award last season and stands as a huge favorite to join Crawford as the league’s only three-time winner — despite the challenge he’s getting from teammate Montrezl Harrell.Someone from the Clippers has to win some year-end recognition in light of the Cinderella season they’ve assembled. Williams makes the most sense over a quality field that also features Harrell, Indiana’s Domantas Sabonis, Brooklyn’s Spencer Dinwiddie, New Orleans’ Julius Randle and San Antonio’s Davis Bertans.As the self-proclaimed overseer of the All-Lefty Team, it pains me to snub both D’Angelo Russell of the Nets and Sacramento’s De’Aaron Fox in this category.But I’ve been saying for years that ultra-high former draft picks like Russell and second-year players like Fox are not going to be Most Improved candidates for me. Russell made a tremendous, inspiring leap to All-Star status in Brooklyn this season, but the wow factor partly stems from the fact that he fell so far short of expectations in his first three seasons. Fox, meanwhile, made the sort of Year 1-to-Year 2 leap Sacramento was counting on from someone it billed as a franchise cornerstone.No one expected Siakam to become an impact player at both ends and a borderline All-Star who helped the Raptors to post 57 wins amid the 22 games Kawhi Leonard missed for various reasons of injury and precaution.The nostalgic sap in me, truth be told, wanted to go with Minnesota’s resurgent Derrick Rose. But D-Rose only wound up being healthy enough to appear in 51 games — and as a former M.V.P. he’s more of a Comeback Player of the Year than a Most Improved candidate. The N.B.A.’s specific instructions in this category read as follows: “This award is designed to honor an up-and-coming player who has made a dramatic improvement from the previous season or seasons. It is not intended to be given to a player who has made a ‘comeback.’ ”Siakam, in other words, is perfect. He’s a former No. 27 overall pick who zoomed from role player to foundational player — either beside Leonard or in a post-Kawhi world should Leonard flee Canada in free agency this summer.Antetokounmpo is a leading candidate here, too, as is Oklahoma City’s Paul George and Indiana’s Myles Turner. But the Bucks, at least on this mythical ballot, will have to settle for two of the six top prizes.Three would have been too many. Especially since Utah’s Gobert remains such a dominant deterrent at the rim in his role as the anchor for a defense that officially ranks No. 2 but is essentially on par with Milwaukee’s.[Marc Stein’s newsletter will have the latest on the N.B.A. playoffs, which start Saturday. Sign up here.]You ask; I answer. Every week in this space, I’ll field three questions posed via email at marcstein-newsletter@nytimes.com. (Please include your first and last name, as well as the city you’re writing in from, and make sure the subject line reads “Corner Three.”)Q: Deandre Ayton hasn’t had a terrible rookie year, but it has paled in comparison to what we’ve seen from Luka Doncic and Trae Young. What do you think Ayton needs to improve on — and will he ever match Luka or Trae’s potential? — Henry Roth (Scottsdale, Ariz.)STEIN: It speaks to how far the Suns have faded from prominence that Ayton, as the No. 1 overall pick last June, got so little attention given the numbers he posted (16.3 points and 10.3 rebounds per game).The leaguewide fascination with Doncic and Young is also a factor, as you mentioned, but Ayton was overlooked in the extreme this season. Suns fans should be hoping that the snub helps motivate Ayton in Year 2, because consistency and sustained energy have been issues for him so far.From a technical standpoint, Ayton has to develop into more of a rim protector. With his mobility and athleticism, Phoenix should be able to build a defense around him. He’s not close to elite yet at that end.But it would also be unfair to ignore that Ayton was frequently forced to start alongside two other rookies on a squad that still doesn’t have a starter-level N.B.A. point guard.Q: Dirk Nowitzki hasn’t come out and said he is retiring, but everyone else seems to be saying it. At first I didn’t believe Adam Silver would have put Dirk in the All-Star Game if he didn’t have it on good authority that Dirk would soon retire, but could this actually not be his final year? It looks like Dirk’s ankle has finally recovered from surgery and he’s moving a lot better. Why not play one more season with Luka Doncic and Kristaps Porzingis and try to go out with a playoff berth? — Sharad AcharyaSTEIN: This much I can tell you: Dirk joining Dwyane Wade in the All-Star Game as a so-called “commissioner’s pick” has nothing to do with Nowitzki’s retirement plans. As Dirk stated before, during and after his trip to Charlotte, this was his All-Star swan song no matter what, even if he decided to play next season.I think there have been times since the All-Star break when an encouraged Nowitzki has imagined himself carrying on. He’s been a huge Porzingis fan for years and would naturally love to experience the Doncic/Porzingis tandem. But the reality is that season No. 21 has been a bigger challenge physically than he ever imagined.Is it really worth putting his body through the rigors of yet another nine-month ride? The case against coming back is much stronger than the case for it, which is why you’ve heard the likes of Mark Cuban and Steve Nash give interviews in recent days that make it sound as though the end is near.Q: I’d like to hear your thoughts on how Stephen Curry makes everyone else on the floor better and how that may not necessarily be the case with Kevin Durant? — Michael DortheimerSTEIN: Anyone who believes this must not have watched the last two N.B.A. finals.Steph is Golden State’s No. 1 playmaker and a true revolutionary when it comes to the way his seemingly limitless shooting range bends defenses.But there’s a reason Durant has won back-to-back M.V.P. trophies in the finals. He’s the best finisher in the game and was the best player on the floor on the game’s grandest stage two years in a row.The Warriors are 32-6 in the playoffs since Durant arrived. Who would dare say he doesn’t make all of the other Warriors better just by being out there?Curry has the ball in his hands more, which surely fuels the perception you describe, but Durant commands more double teams than any other Warrior and is a great passer both out of the post and in pick-and-roll situations. There is no shortage of coaches and scouts around the league who regard him as an elite playmaker.This is the fifth time in the Knicks’ 73-season history that they’ve had the league’s worst record. The first three times, there were fewer than 10 teams in the league: 1960-61 (21-58 in an eight-team league), 1962-63 (21-59 in a nine-team league) and 1964-65 (22-58 in a nine-team league). The Knicks were also at the bottom of a 23-team league in 1985-86 at 23-59. At 16-64 so far this season, the Knicks will post the lowest win total in franchise history unless they win at least one of their final two games. Utah’s Rudy Gobert is poised to finish this season with more dunks than anyone else, with 301 dunks to Antetokounmpo’s 279 for Milwaukee. Gobert, though, has played in all 80 of Utah’s games this season. Antetokounmpo has missed 12 of the Bucks’ 81 games to date. Antetokounmpo’s Bucks finished 18th in defensive rating last season. They’ve climbed 17 spots this season to rank No. 1 overall entering Tuesday’s play, allowing 104.8 points per 100 possessions. Jason Terry’s 590 regular-season games alongside Dirk are the most of any teammate in Nowitzki’s 21 seasons in Dallas. J.J. Barea ranks second (and No. 1 among active Mavericks) with 543 regular-season games. The Mavericks say Nowitzki has had 197 teammates.This is the 39th consecutive season, according to the peerless data maintained by Basketball-Reference.com, during which the average height of N.B.A. players is 6-foot-7. The last season that featured a different figure was 1979-80, when the average height of N.B.A. players was 6-foot-6.Marc Stein is a sports reporter specializing in N.B.A. coverage, with occasional forays into soccer and tennis. He spent nearly 15 years at ESPN before coming to The Times.  @TheSteinLine • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinCarmelo Anthony will finally secure his escape from the Houston Rockets on Tuesday when the Rockets complete a trade that sends the former All-Star to the Chicago Bulls, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.The Bulls have no intention of playing Anthony but could elect to keep him until the Feb. 7 trade deadline and use him in another potential deal, according to the person, who was not authorized to discuss the trade publicly.The trade with Chicago, which is also expected to include some minor draft compensation, could not be executed Monday because the league office was closed in observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day. But the Rockets, as first reported by ESPN, offered an undisclosed amount of cash to convince the Bulls to take on the remainder of Anthony’s $2.4 million salary for this season, which will result in a luxury-tax savings of $2.6 million for Houston.Anthony, 34, has been in search of a new team since Nov. 11, when The New York Times first reported that the former Knick’s time with the Rockets was coming to an end after just 10 games together.Houston formally announced on Nov. 15 that the sides were “parting ways” but has kept Anthony on the roster for the past two months in hopes of trading him rather than outright releasing him, thus avoiding the luxury-tax hit.Whether Anthony stays on Chicago’s roster until Feb. 7 or becomes a free agent sooner than that, his challenge remains finding a team willing to give him another shot after failed stints with Houston and the Oklahoma City Thunder. Concerns about Anthony’s defense and his ability to shed his ball-dominant ways of the past and adapt to a catch-and-shoot role have resulted in scant interest in him despite his accomplished résumé.The Times reported last month that the Los Angeles Lakers, the Philadelphia 76ers and the Charlotte Hornets are among the teams that have weighed but ultimately resisted pursuing Anthony since the Rockets sent him away from the team.The Rockets spent the weekend trying to find a new home for Anthony via trade to create a roster spot for the veteran big man Kenneth Faried, who signed with Houston on Monday after securing a contract buyout from the Nets on Friday.Trades can happen on weekends and holidays but only if the league office is given notice that a deal is in the works by 6 p.m. on the most recent business day. As a result, Houston was forced to release the swingman James Nunnally to create the roster room to add Faried.The Rockets are hoping Faried can help fill the void created by a thumb injury to starting center Clint Capela, who is expected to be sidelined for at least a month after undergoing surgery last week.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreBy Victor MatherThe Knicks won a basketball game Thursday night. That has not happened since Jan. 4.There won’t be a ticker-tape parade, but it was a surprise. This, after all, has been a really bad season for the Knicks.They are 11-47. The win, over the Atlanta Hawks, 106-91, broke an 18-game losing streak, which was a franchise record.The team traded away its most popular player by far, Kristaps Porzingis, and in return got a rookie and a couple of expiring contracts. The deal also meant the cancellation of the coming Latvian Heritage Night at Madison Square Garden, which frankly was shaping up to be one of the highlights of the season.To be fair, a core of loyalists insist that these Knicks are a fun bunch to watch. And there is optimistic talk for next year.The Knicks are bad enough to have a decent shot at the top draft pick, probably Zion Williamson, Duke’s superstar big man. Cap space will allow the team to seek big-name free agents, and there is sunny speculation that the team could land stars like Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving or even both.We’ll see about that. But for now, fans are left pondering if the Knicks are historically dreadful or just run-of-the-mill dreadful.Let’s see how the Knicks rate, at least in the current century.That means this year’s Knicks won’t have to compete against the consensus worst team of them all, the legendary 9-73 Philadelphia 76ers of 1972-73.Despite a couple of 50-win seasons, in 2000 and 2013, the Knicks’ winning percentage this century is .416, worst in the N.B.A. Yes, even worse than the Washington Wizards, and Charlotte Hornets, and even the Nets.Here is how the 2018-19 Knicks stack up.This is where it begins and ends. Wins. Losses. But mostly losses. Lots and lots of losses.The Knicks are 11-47, giving them a winning percentage that looks like a typo: .190.But there were worse seasons in the last 20 years. In 2012, the Bobcats (now the Hornets) finished at 7-59 in a lockout season for a .106 percentage.Over a full season, the 76ers in 2016, in full tanking mode, only barely managed to break double digit wins with a 10-72 record.The Knicks are only 11th worst.Even counting just those streaks that are contained in a single season, the Knicks’ 18-gamer comes up short. The 2011 Cleveland Cavaliers and the 2014 76ers both managed to stumble to 26 straight losses. After Thursday’s win, the Knicks have lost their chance at that ignominious record.The Knicks have been outscored by 8.7 points in an average game this season.Again, there have been worse teams. The 2012 Charlotte strike team lost by 13.9 points a game. The 2000 Clippers put up minus-11.5 over a full season.The Knicks are only 25th.There are those Sixers again: In 2015, they shot .408 for the season. At .430, the Knicks are 39th.The 2009 Grizzlies had only 17.4 assists per game, trailed closely by the 2006 Knicks of Larry Brown, Stephon Marbury and notorious nonpasser Eddy Curry.This season’s Knicks aren’t good, but they aren’t really bad, at 19.9, for 91st place.It is not a good time for defensive stats in the N.B.A. Using the metric points allowed per 100 possessions, three teams this season are in the top five of the century: The Cavaliers are allowing 117 points per 100, worst of the era, and indeed for as far back as Basketball-Reference’s stats go. Over the last 20 years, this season‘s Suns are second, and the Knicks, at 113.4, are seventh.Do any of this year’s Knicks individually reach truly humiliating marks? Not really.Frank Ntilikina’s .342 shooting percentage is poor certainly, but it is only 24th worst among players with 15 minutes a game and 40 games played, a lot better than DeShawn Stevenson’s .285 from the 2012 Nets.So we are forced to conclude, that while dispiritingly bad, the Knicks come up short in another way too. They are not even really close to being the worst team of the last 20 years.Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaCHARLOTTE, N.C. — Stephen Curry was about 25 minutes into a news conference here on Saturday afternoon when a magician who goes by the name Jibrizy sidled up to the dais to do a card trick. Curry, the Golden State Warriors point guard, seemed impressed.“That was nice, big fella,” Curry said. “That was crazy. Y’all see that? Did y’all see that? What’s your name, boss? Jibrizy? Nice to meet you, man. Fire. You’re fire. That’s what’s up.”Lots of weird stuff tends to happen during N.B.A. All-Star weekend, and a cameo by Jibrizy was no exception. But it was also the rare instance when the spotlight left Curry, if only for a moment, in the run-up to the weekend’s flagship game on Sunday.Curry, a six-time All-Star and two-time most valuable player who has already coaxed Golden State to three championships, is used to lots of attention. But he relished his return to Charlotte, where he grew up to become perhaps the greatest shooter of all time — and where he is still revered.“From the time I started playing basketball at 5, right down the street at the recreation center, to now, a lot has happened,” Curry said. “A lot of great things.”Curry was not so great Sunday, but that was not the point. He finished with 17 points, 9 rebounds and 7 assists for Team Giannis in a 178-164 loss to Team LeBron in the All-Star Game, which was a defense-free postscript to a weekend that was a Curry family affair.“Incredibly fond of the family,” Commissioner Adam Silver told reporters. “They seem to be the first family of Charlotte, at least this week.”For much of his trip home, Curry was accompanied by his father, Dell, who spent 10 seasons playing for the Charlotte Hornets, and his mother, Sonya, who drilled a half-court heave after the family helped refurbish a community center. It was probably the family’s splashiest shot of the weekend.“I was surprised,” Stephen Curry said, “because the first four she flung underhand, they didn’t make it to the rim. And then that last one, it just looked good from the moment it left her hand, and I was going, ‘Wham, bam, can of ham! That’s going in!’ ”Curry had less success in Saturday night’s 3-point shootout, where he was joined by his younger brother, Seth, who plays for the Portland Trail Blazers. Stephen Curry made it to the championship round before losing to Joe Harris of the Brooklyn Nets.But Curry had also found time to return to Davidson College, his alma mater, where he clambered into the student section to celebrate an 80-72 victory over St. Joseph’s on Friday night.“The energy in the building was unbelievable,” Curry said. “It’s surreal every time I get to go back there.”The following afternoon, Curry swayed in a sea of reporters (and at least one magician) as he fielded a wide-ranging mix of questions.What did it mean to him to be back in Charlotte? “It’s kind of overwhelming to be honest,” he said. “I’ve got to be like the Energizer bunny.”Could he say something nice to all his fans in the Dominican Republic? “I’ve been there, and I hope to go back,” he said.Did he have a favorite basketball-themed movie? “Probably ‘Love & Basketball,’ ” he said. “I’m a romantic, bro.”During warm-ups for Sunday’s game, Curry mimicked a game of volleyball with Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid, posted up a ball boy so that he could take an entry pass from Oklahoma City Thunder point guard Russell Westbrook, made chitchat with bigwigs who were courtside and jacked his share of 30-footers. Most of them went in. All-Star weekend is a circus, but it is still basketball, after all, and Curry has unique skills.He is assembling another spectacular season, even if his work has been overshadowed by fellow All-Stars like James Harden of the Houston Rockets, Paul George of the Thunder and Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo. Curry has been so consistently good for so long now — and his team so dominant — that perhaps some of the novelty has worn off. It is unfair, of course.If his feats feel too familiar, consider his production this season: 28.6 points, 5.2 assists and 5.1 rebounds per game while shooting 48.8 percent from the field and 44.4 percent from 3-point range. He missed 11 games with a groin injury but spent part of that time gluing the Warriors’ locker room back together after Kevin Durant and Draymond Green had a big dust-up.The friction stemmed from Durant’s looming free agency, which has been a steady hum of distraction for the Warriors. But Curry has been a stabilizing force for his team — and even for the league.With a contract that runs through the 2021-22 season, Curry has not had to face pressing questions about his future. He is committed to the Warriors, and the Warriors appear committed to him. He is a throwback in an era dominated by player movement, the current face of which is Anthony Davis, the All-Star center who recently requested a trade from the New Orleans Pelicans. So many other stars face uncertain summers, too: Durant, Kyrie Irving and Kawhi Leonard among them.But Curry has his niche in Northern California, even if his roots are in North Carolina. After Sunday’s game, he described trying to persuade his father to move to the Bay Area, where Curry has settled in with his wife, Ayesha, and their three children.Dell Curry, who is a color commentator for the Hornets, always says no.“This is where home is for him,” Stephen Curry said.And for Stephen Curry, the whereabouts of his father seem to be the only player movements on his mind. Curry said he was unconcerned with free agency this summer and the potential departures of his teammates.“That’s a part of the business,” Curry said. “But the great teams, the great players, they stay in the moment and they understand what’s in front of them.”And so, after taking a weekend to dip into his past, Curry returned to looking ahead. The journey goes on.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreJames’s first season with the Lakers has been disappointing, but passing his idol in career scoring goes beyond winning and losing.By Benjamin HoffmanThere was no Instagram post celebrating the achievement in advance this time. There was relatively little buildup from the news media. It was an event that might have dominated the news cycle in years’ past, but when LeBron James passed Michael Jordan on the N.B.A.’s career scoring list on Wednesday night, it was a triumph that somehow had been reduced to a footnote.James came into the Los Angeles Lakers’ game against the Denver Nuggets needing 13 points to surpass Jordan for fourth place on the career list. With 5 minutes 38 seconds remaining in the second quarter, he managed to force his way to the basket for a layup, giving him 14 points for the game and 32,294 for his career. For good measure, he was fouled on the play. After a short stoppage to acknowledge the moment, play resumed as the Lakers, clinging to the last shreds of their playoff hopes, tried their best to overcome a huge early deficit at home against a heavily favored opponent.LeBron passes Michael Jordan on all-time scoring list pic.twitter.com/G2tAovqMrzThe Lakers, led by an unlikely group of bench players, did make a run at Denver, reducing a 17-point deficit at halftime to 2 points with 8:37 left in the fourth quarter. But the Nuggets regained their footing and ran away with a 115-99 victory, spoiling a night in which James contributed 31 points, 7 rebounds and 7 assists, looking far more energized on both ends of the court than he had in recent weeks, and finishing the night with his career point total up to 32,311. James, who has taken the brunt of the criticism for the Lakers’ failings in a difficult first year in Los Angeles, had acknowledged the pending accomplishment in a tweet shortly before the game, but was measured when discussing it with reporters earlier in the day.“I take all accomplishments as they come,” he said. “Any time I’m in the breath with any other greats — and obviously M.J. being the guy that I looked up to my whole life, the guy I admired as a kid — I think it’s going to be pretty cool.”Jordan, who owns the Charlotte Hornets, issued a brief statement on Thursday, saying, “I want to congratulate LeBron on achieving another great milestone during his amazing career.” The statement was notable mostly for being far more succinct than the one he issued when Kobe Bryant passed him on the career scoring list in 2014.One would hardly have guessed from either man’s words that the greatest current basketball player had just surpassed his idol in their sport’s signature statistic. The inability for James to truly celebrate the moment was yet another indignity in a season full of them.It was a little more than a year ago when James had seemingly settled into a groove. He scored his 30,000th point — a feat he congratulated himself about on Instagram hours before he actually accomplished it. With that hurdle cleared, and with recent championship runs in Miami and Cleveland under his belt, his march toward challenging Jordan, then Bryant, then Karl Malone and maybe even Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, the N.B.A.’s career scoring leader, seemed as if it would come without the criticism that had followed him earlier in his career.A decision — a loaded word when it comes to James — to move to an ill-prepared Lakers team in the off-season has changed the calculus altogether. The team was predicted by most to struggle to make the playoffs in the West thanks to its collection of too-young players and veterans who do not complement James. Nevertheless, many have labeled the year a disappointment by virtue of the team’s struggles despite having James, a player whose presence has seemingly guaranteed a finals appearance for close to a decade.As a result, James and the people around him have not been able to take much joy in his accomplishments. Just last week he passed Andre Miller to move into 10th place in career assists, thus making him the only player currently in the top 10 in both career points and assists. That feat — it had been temporarily attained by only a handful of other players going back to the days of Bob Cousy — was met with a collective shrug.It is a reality of James’s life that he acknowledged on Wednesday.“I haven’t really appreciated anything I’ve been able to accomplish because I’m so engulfed in what’s next,” he said. “How I can continue to get better; how I can help this franchise get back to where it needs to be.”An occasional season of missing the playoffs is not unusual for most players — even the great ones — but to capture how truly rare it would be for a James-led team, consider that he has played double-digit playoff games in each of the last 13 years. He has appeared in nine N.B.A. finals — winning three — and as a result his career rankings among playoff performers come off as outrageous, even for someone as accomplished as James. Those rankings almost certainly will not improve this year. But among the more interesting aspects of James’s current predicament is the opinion among many Lakers fans that the team’s struggles have resulted in James’s failing to live up to Bryant’s legacy. Those criticisms ignore the fact that the Lakers’ current six-year run of missing the playoffs included three seasons in which Bryant was still with the team. In fact, when Bryant passed Jordan on the career scoring list in 2014 — a feat considered a big enough deal at the time that a road game in Minnesota was stopped for several minutes so the crowd could give him a standing ovation and the Timberwolves’ owner could present him with the game ball — the Lakers were only 8-16 and, partially a result of a season-ending injury to Bryant later in the year, were on their way to a 21-61 record.But in one of the endless parallels between the careers of Jordan and James, players who will be debated long after both are gone, Jordan, who passed Wilt Chamberlain for No. 3 on the career scoring list in 2003, also found little joy in what should have been a huge accomplishment, largely because his Washington Wizards were a .500 team at the time. “The thing about stats is they define you when you’re 10 or 20 years past the game,” Jordan said when asked to sum up his feelings on the accomplishment. “While you’re playing, what matters is wins.”James, who wears No. 23 because of Jordan, put a wristband on his forearm because of Jordan, learned to shoot fadeaways because of Jordan and pitches sneakers for Nike just like Jordan does, may want to heed that advice from Jordan in terms of coming back on his accomplishments later, even if they have to be put aside for now. The Lakers could never win another game and James, a player who still refuses to label himself a scorer, will always have more points than Jordan, the player who served as his inspiration on a path to greatness. “I gotta carry it on to the next kid,” James said after the game, finally letting his emotion truly show. “Hopefully I can inspire the next kid like myself.”An earlier version of this article misstated the time in the game when LeBron James moved to fourth on the N.B.A.'s career scoring list. It was with 5:38 left in the second quarter, not 5:38 into the second quarter.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherThe most recent, less than Super Bowl notwithstanding, the N.F.L. continues to be a behemoth, dominating the sports landscape in revenue, attendance and television ratings.That popularity has over the years tempted entrepreneurs to try to cash in by starting professional football leagues of their own. The latest effort is the Alliance of American Football, which plays its first games on Saturday.There have been plenty of pretenders to the N.F.L.’s crown over the years. None have succeeded, but all had their share of novelty.Season July to DecemberWeird rules A touchdown was worth seven points; teams could then go for a conversion from scrimmage for one more “action point.” No sudden-death overtime; a full 15-minute quarter was played. No preseason.Champion Birmingham AmericansOdd team names The Hawaiians (Honolulu), Charlotte Hornets, Memphis Grizzlies, Shreveport SteamerBig-name owner John B. Kelly Jr. (Princess Grace’s brother) of the Philadelphia BellBig-name coaches Jack Pardee, Florida Blazers; John McVay, Memphis SouthmenBig-name players Ken Stabler, Birmingham; Bill Bergey, Florida; Larry Csonka and Jim Kiick, MemphisUnlikely city Shreveport, La.Strange occurrence A restraining order was served on defensive lineman John Matuszak by his N.F.L. team, the Houston Oilers, in the middle of a game, forcing him to stop playing for the Houston Texans.TV The syndicated TVS networkThe Times said: “The dye on the footballs may still be wet and the players may not he able to keep dry in the stifling heat, but the World Football League brings midweek, midsummer football to the nation’s sports life tonight.”Legacy Gave a start to Coach Marty Schottenheimer; broke ground for professional football in the South.Season March to JulyWeird rules Allowed 2-point conversion (later adopted by the N.F.L.)Champions Michigan Panthers, Philadelphia Stars, Baltimore StarsOdd team name Pittsburgh MaulersBig-name owner Donald J. Trump, New Jersey GeneralsBig-name coaches George Allen, Chicago Blitz; Marv Levy, Chicago; Jim Mora, Philadelphia and BaltimoreBig-name players Herschel Walker, New Jersey; Reggie White, Memphis Showboats; Jim Kelly, Houston Gamblers; Steve Young, Los Angeles ExpressUnlikely city Tulsa, Okla.Strange occurrence The Chicago Blitz was traded in its entirety — players, coaches and assets — for the Arizona Wranglers.TV ABC and ESPNThe Times said: “Yesterday’s opening of the U.S.F.L. season occurred only five weeks after Super Bowl XVII, meaning pro football now exists for 11 months. It’s as if another baseball league was formed with a season that opened in December.”Legacy Introduced instant replay for officials’ rulings; won antitrust lawsuit against the N.F.L. but was awarded only $3 in damages.Season February to AprilWeird rules Players could have nicknames on their jerseys; two players raced for the football to determine opening possession; no fair catches.Champion Los Angeles XtremeOdd team names New York/New Jersey Hitmen, Memphis ManiaxBig-name owner All teams owned by World Wrestling Federation and NBCBig-name coaches Ron Meyer, Chicago Enforcers; Al Luginbill, Los AngelesBig name players Rod “He Hate Me” Smart, Las Vegas Outlaws; Rashaan Salaam, MemphisStrange occurrence A double overtime game caused “Saturday Night Live” to be delayed by 45 minutes, infuriating the producer Lorne Michaels. Subsequently, NBC cut away from the games at 11 p.m. even if they were not over.TV NBCThe Times said: “Like a blight that has crept from the low-rent fringes of cable to network prime time, the XFL mingles violence, voyeurism and even politics into one trashy Saturday night show.”Legacy Unusual camera angles, including Skycam; a return planned for next year.Season October to NovemberWeird rules Blitzes limited to six players; single-bar face mask permitted.Champions Las Vegas Locomotives (three times), Virginia DestroyersOdd team name Florida TuskersBig-name owners Mark Cuban was an investor. Joe Theismann, Florida.Big-name coaches Jerry Glanville, Hartford Colonials; Jim Fassel, Las Vegas; Jay Gruden, FloridaBig-name players Brooks Bollinger, Florida; Graham Gano, Las Vegas; Maurice Clarett, Omaha Nighthawks; John David Washington, Denzel’s son, Sacramento Mountain LionsUnlikely city Virginia BeachStrange occurrence The “New York” Sentinels played one home game in Hartford, one in New Jersey and one on Long Island.TV Versus and CBS Sports NetworkThe Times said: “Reports of the U.F.L.’s impending death have been around as long as the league.”Legacy Had female officials, including Sarah Thomas, who is now in the N.F.L.Season October to NovemberWeird rules Kicks taken from wider hash mark; extra points from 35 yards.Champions Brooklyn BoltsOdd team names Florida Blacktips, Hudson Valley FortBig-name owner Teams were owned by the league.Big-name coach Terry Shea, maybe? (a former N.F.L. quarterbacks coach and Rutgers head coach)Big-name player Josh Freeman, BrooklynUnlikely city Fishkill, N.Y.Strange occurrence The Florida Blacktips were a traveling team that had no home stadium. The 2014 championship game was canceled, and Brooklyn declared the champion.TV ESPN3 and syndicatedThe Times said: “Tonight’s contest, against the Boston Brawlers, will be the first pro football game played in New York City since the Jets’ farewell to Shea Stadium in 1983.”Season February to AprilWeird rules No kickoffs; drives start from 25; 2-point conversions required.Champions T.B.D.Odd team name San Diego FleetBig-name owner Charlie Ebersol, son of the t executive Dick Ebersol, is a founder.Big-name coaches Steve Spurrier, Orlando Apollos; Mike Singletary, Memphis Express; Rick Neuheisel, Arizona HotshotsBig-name players Trent Richardson, Birmingham Iron; Zach Mettenberger, MemphisStrange occurrence Sites are already taking betting on the new league. BetDSI has the Arizona Hotshots as the favorites.TV CBS, CBS Sports Network, TNT and NFL NetworkThe Times said: “The Alliance of American Football, though, will have to overcome the obstacles that others could not, including runaway expenses, limited media exposure and a lack of fans.”Maybe a fierce rivalry will develop between San Diego and Phoenix. Maybe a player will break out the way “He Hate Me” did in the XFL. Maybe Coach Spurrier will recapture his magic. The Alliance will have to roll a Yahtzee to succeed in the shadow of the N.F.L. But even if it fails, you can bet someone will soon line up to try again.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Malik Monk is learning. It might be his favorite word. He says he is learning from Tony Parker and Kemba Walker. He says he is learning to defend “grown men” who know the tricks of the trade. He says he is learning to vary his pace when he comes off the bench for the Charlotte Hornets, because he does not need to dial it up to flambé all the time.“You have to know when to speed up and when to slow down,” said Monk, a 6-foot-3 shooting guard, “and I’m still learning.”Monk, 20, did not anticipate that his first two seasons in the N.B.A. would be so challenging, not after he was the Southeastern Conference player of the year in his only season at Kentucky and the 11th overall pick in the 2017 draft. He is no less confident in his abilities than he once was, but he is definitely less naïve.“I thought it would be way smoother,” he said in an interview on Tuesday before the Hornets played the Clippers at Staples Center. “I thought I was going to play right away when I first got here. I thought I was going to play right away this year, too. But it’s been a lot of ups and downs.”His growing pains are not unique to second-year players. But there may be more organizational urgency with Monk given the Hornets’ uncertain future. Walker, their All-Star point guard and the face of the franchise, is due for unrestricted free agency this summer, and he needs more talent around him for the Hornets to be a contender. Perhaps Monk will be a part of that equation, but the clock is ticking — and it still requires some imagination to envision the player he could become.Monk, though, offers flashes, and some of them came against the Clippers: the 36 seconds of game action he required to take and make his first 3-pointer, his running floater on the following possession, even his pyrotechnic offense in garbage time. He finished with 24 points in 21 minutes in a 128-109 loss.“He’s an explosive scorer,” said James Borrego, the team’s first-year coach.As the Hornets (19-21) grapple for a playoff spot, Monk is averaging 10.8 points in 18.9 minutes a game while shooting 39.7 percent from the field. While he needs to become a more proficient shooter, he has more pronounced limitations on defense, where he is on the small side for a shooting guard and lacks the savvy of many of the (bigger, more experienced) players he is trying to defend.“Man, if you’re a second late, it’s over with,” Monk said. “You can recover in college. In college, you can hide in a zone, too. But here, you get exposed. Everybody’s so good.”At Kentucky, Monk teamed up in the backcourt with De’Aaron Fox, another immensely talented freshman who declared for the 2017 draft. Fox went fifth to the Sacramento Kings, and he has excelled this season, averaging 18 points and 7.3 assists a game while shooting 47.4 percent from the field. He starts. He plays loads of minutes. And he gets a lot of attention.Monk and Fox are on a group chat with a couple of other former teammates at Kentucky, Monk said, and they message one another all the time. Monk roots for Fox — “I tell him, ‘Keep killing, Fox,’ ” Monk said — but he cannot help noting the opportunity that Fox has gotten, and how much he has made of it.“If you get down on yourself, that’s going to mess everything up,” Monk said. “So I just try to stay positive. You have to be patient, man. Patience.”Borrego benched Monk for two games last month — the coach was frustrated with the team’s defense — but said on Tuesday that he was pleased with Monk’s progress.“He’s just got to be more consistent on the defensive end,” Borrego said, “and we’re seeing that growth.”Monk’s minutes, though, have been sporadic — much as they were last season under Steve Clifford, who now coaches the Orlando Magic — and he said he was learning to adapt. Everyone wants to start, he said, but maybe he was meant to come off the bench and develop into an elite scorer like Lou Williams or Jamal Crawford, two players who have turned their reserve roles into art forms. Or maybe, Monk said, his career will take a different turn.“There are always teams watching,” Monk said. “So, I mean, if this is not your spot, it might be somewhere else, and there’s always somebody watching — and it’s probably somebody that likes you. So you’ve got to go out there and do stuff for you and for your team. If you do both of those things together, you’ll be all right.”Asked if he was happy in Charlotte, Monk said: “I’m playing basketball. So, yeah, I’m learning, and I’m watching the best every night. If you’re not happy doing this, I don’t know why you came to the N.B.A. So me playing or not, I’m still going to learn, I’m still going to smile, and I’m still going to be who I am. So I’m glad I’m in this situation.”In their locker room at Spectrum Center, where the Hornets play their home games, Monk sits between Parker, already a legend from his days with the San Antonio Spurs, and Marvin Williams, a power forward in his 14th season. Both are consummate pros, and Monk suspects that the locker room layout was no accident.“He’s very coachable,” Williams said. “He wants to learn, and he wants to be really good.”Borrego described Parker as something of a big brother to Monk whenever they are on the court together with the team’s second unit.“A lot of times Malik feels like a wild stallion,” Borrego said, “and Tony’s out there trying to keep him calmed down.”For Monk, the lessons never stop. Michael Jordan, the team’s owner, delivered another last month when he smacked Monk on the head for prematurely celebrating a win against the Detroit Pistons. Jordan was being playful. Monk clearly cared, and that alone is worth something.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points. At age 39, he became the oldest player ever to reach 50 in an NBA game.Heat 122, 76ers 99Dwyane Wade, playing the final home game of his NBA career, scored 30 points to lead Miami over Philadelphia.Wade made 10 of 23 shots, including 4 of 10 on attempts from beyond the arc. It was his second-highest scoring game of the season. But it was a bittersweet night for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention earlier in the evening when the Detroit Pistons rallied from a 22-point deficit to defeat the Memphis Grizzlies.Philadelphia, which has already clinched the third seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs, rested two of its stars: Joel Embiid, who was listed as having a knee injury, and JJ Redick (back).Warriors 112, Pelicans 103DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds against his former team as visiting Golden State defeated New Orleans.After clinching home-court advantage throughout the Western Conference playoffs on Sunday, the Warriors had Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson, Andre Iguodala and Andrew Bogut among their inactive players. Stephen Curry left for game after scoring five points in nine minutes in what the Warriors called "a precaution" after he sustained a mild foot sprain.Jahlil Okafor scored 30 points to lead the short-handed Pelicans, who dressed just eight players and finished the season 33-49.Raptors 120, Timberwolves 100Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points as visiting Toronto completed its regular-season schedule with a victory over Minnesota.The Raptors (58-24) secured the second-best record in the Eastern Conference with the win, behind only the Milwaukee Bucks (60-21), who play their final game Wednesday.Fred VanVleet added 16 points for the Raptors, Chris Boucher added career bests with 15 points and 13 rebounds, and Pascal Siakam and Norman Powell each scored 10 points. Gorgui Dieng and Andrew Wiggins each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves.Jazz 118, Nuggets 108Donovan Mitchell matched his career best of 46 points, and Utah posted a victory over Denver in Salt Lake City.Rudy Gobert added 20 points and 10 rebounds as Utah notched its ninth straight home win against Denver. Utah locked up the No. 5 seed for the Western Conference playoffs.Malik Beasley scored 25 points on 9-of-13 shooting for the Nuggets, who have lost four of their past six games and are a half-game ahead of Houston after the Rockets fell to the Oklahoma City Thunder on Tuesday.Trail Blazers 104, Lakers 101Instead of quietly sneaking into the offseason after losing its season finale to playoff-bound Portland, Los Angeles made some noise when Magic Johnson announced his resignation as president of basketball operations for the team.The game still meant something for Portland, though, and the Trail Blazers clinched home-court advantage in the first round of the Western Conference playoffs when Maurice Harkless made a 3-pointer at the buzzer for a win. The Trail Blazers can overtake the Rockets on a tiebreaker to finish third in the West with a win against the visiting Sacramento Kings on Wednesday.Harkless, who left the previous game with left hip tightness, finished with 26 points. Kentavious Caldwell-Pope had 32 points and eight assists for the Lakers, who finished with 37 wins -- two more than last season.Thunder 112, Rockets 111Russell Westbrook scored 29 points, but it was Paul George's corner 3-pointer with 1.8 seconds left that sent Oklahoma City to a home win over Houston.Oklahoma City trailed by 14 early in the fourth quarter and by four in the final minute before Westbrook's and George's heroics.James Harden made his first 12 free throws in the game but with less than 10 seconds left and Houston on top 111-109, he missed one, giving the Thunder a chance to tie or take the lead. Westbrook barreled up the court, briefly handing the ball off to Steven Adams near midcourt before getting the ball and firing it to George in the corner for what proved to be the game-winner.Celtics 116, Wizards 100Terry Rozier led seven Boston players in double figures with 21 points as his team closed out the regular season with a win over host Washington.The Celtics rallied from a 13-point, third-quarter deficit for their sixth win in eight games. Boston, which played without Marcus Smart, Jayson Tatum, Kyrie Irving, Al Horford, Marcus Morris, Aron Baynes and Gordon Hayward, will be the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs.Semi Ojeleye, Brad Wanamaker and RJ Hunter had 17 points apiece for Boston, which outscored Washington 27-15 in the fourth quarter. Tomas Satoransky led the Wizards with 19 points, and Bradley Beal scored 16 points in 16 minutes. Beal became the first person in franchise history to finish a season averaging at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists per game.Pistons 100, Grizzlies 93Andre Drummond scored 20 points and grabbed 17 rebounds, and Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to defeat visiting Memphis.Despite winning, the Pistons were unable to clinch the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. The Charlotte Hornets beat the Cleveland Cavaliers and remain one game behind Detroit heading into Wednesday night's final regular-season games. The Pistons finish against the Knicks at New York while the Hornets host the Orlando Magic.The Pistons, who trailed by 22 in the second quarter, climbed all the way back and took an 85-83 lead on Ish Smith's jumper just moments after his 3-pointer tied the score at 83-all. Smith finished with 22 points off the bench, and Luke Kennard added 15 for Detroit.Hornets 124, Cavaliers 97Kemba Walker and Jeremy Lamb scored 23 points apiece, and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive with a victory over host Cleveland.The Hornets led by 12 points in the first half and then pushed the lead all the way to 27 in the fourth quarter, winning their fourth straight and eighth in their past 11 games. They hit a season-high 22 3-pointers on 44 attempts and shot 57.7 percent from the field.Miles Bridges and Dwayne Bacon added 18 points apiece for the Hornets. Frank Kaminsky scored 14 and Devonte Graham had 10. Collin Sexton led the Cavs with 18 points.Knicks 96, Bulls 86Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points and Kevin Knox and Luke Kornet each notched double-doubles to lead New York past host Chicago.Knox had 17 points and 10 rebounds, Kornet chipped in 12 points and 13 rebounds and Damyean Dotson added 12 points for the Knicks (17-64), who are already assured of the NBA's worst record this season. They can do no worse than tie the franchise record for fewest wins in a regular season, set in 2014-15.The Bulls closed the home portion of their schedule with a 9-32 record, setting a franchise record for home futility. The 2000-01 team held the previous club standard for fewest home victories with 10.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe Knicks shook the N.B.A. on Thursday by abruptly cutting ties with Kristaps Porzingis, sending the player long billed as their 7-foot 3-inch savior to the Dallas Mavericks in a blockbuster trade that could make New York a major player in free agency this July.The deal, which was first disclosed by The New York Times, came one week before the N.B.A.’s trading deadline and changes the course of the Knicks’ franchise. Porzingis, Tim Hardaway Jr., Courtney Lee and Trey Burke have all been shipped to Dallas in exchange for the promising guard Dennis Smith Jr., who was a first-round draft pick in 2017, two future first-round picks and the expiring contracts of the veterans DeAndre Jordan and Wesley Matthews.Porzingis, who was increasingly unhappy about the Knicks’ constant losing and is scheduled to become a restricted free agent July 1, asked to be traded on Thursday, according to both a team statement and subsequent comments that Knicks President Steve Mills and General Manager Scott Perry made on a conference call Thursday evening.But the Knicks and the Mavericks were already far along in trade talks before Porzingis lodged that request, according to two people with knowledge of the situation who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.“As is standard for this time of year, we were exploring various options on potential trades,” Perry said in a statement. “Considering the uncertainty regarding Kristaps’s free-agent status and his request today to be traded, we made a trade that we are confident improves the franchise.”On the conference call, Mills described Porzingis as a player “that no longer wanted to be part of our group.”In a farewell Twitter post Thursday night, Porzingis said: “New York will always have a special place in my heart. Grateful for everybody who made this journey so special for my family and I.”Dallas’s willingness to acquire the contracts of Hardaway and Lee in order to land Porzingis clinched the deal and will position the Knicks to create nearly $75 million in salary-cap space this summer — enough to offer maximum contracts to two of the top players expected to be free agents. Golden State’s Kevin Durant and Boston’s Kyrie Irving are frequently mentioned as Knicks targets.Porzingis established himself as an All-Star last season but tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee in a game early last February. He has not played since and never regained his trust in the organization, which has been waning since the final days of Phil Jackson’s ill-fated tenure as team president and could not be repaired by Mills, Perry and David Fizdale, who is in his first season as the Knicks’ coach.Even though Porzingis has been sidelined for nearly a year, Dallas was sufficiently motivated to surrender prized assets such as Smith and the two first-round picks (likely to be conveyed in 2021 and 2023) to get the deal done.The Mavericks now hope to win over Porzingis, 23, keep him in Dallas and make him the team’s co-star alongside the 6-7 Luka Doncic, who is only 19 but has already emerged as a standout in his first season in the N.B.A. In Dallas’s dream scenario, Porzingis, who is from Latvia, and Doncic, who is from Slovenia, will form a partnership reminiscent of the retired Steve Nash and Dirk Nowitzki, who, at 40 and in his 21st season with the Mavericks, may be playing his final N.B.A. campaign.“We obviously think Porzingis is a great young talent, similar in many ways to Dirk,” Mavericks Coach Rick Carlisle told 103.3 FM radio in Dallas before his team played Thursday night in Detroit. “This is kind of a Dirk-and-Nash type of situation, only these guys are taller.”For the Knicks, being able to shed the contracts of both Hardaway and Lee had become a priority before next week’s trade deadline, as  The Times reported last week. So they jumped at the opportunity to do the deal with Dallas rather than spend the next week seeing what other teams might offer for Porzingis.The Knicks have been regarded in league circles for some time as the foremost threat to sign Durant away from the Warriors in July. The deal with Dallas means they will have the financial wherewithal to do so — and likewise to pursue Irving.The Knicks, with a league-worst record of 10-40, are also on course to have a 14 percent chance at securing the top pick in the June draft, which would enable them to select Zion Williamson, the highly coveted Duke forward.Smith was the No. 9 overall pick in the 2017 draft, passed over by the Knicks and Jackson, who drafted a different backcourt player: Frank Ntilikina of France. Dallas has been trying to trade Smith for weeks, having quickly concluded that the ball-dominant guard, despite his robust athleticism, is not an ideal fit with Doncic.In a timely sales job to his new employers, Smith posted a career-high 15 assists, along with 13 points and 10 rebounds, in the Mavericks’ 114-90 victory over the Knicks on Wednesday night at Madison Square Garden.Jordan and Matthews are on expiring contracts that the Knicks can try to trade before next Thursday’s 3 p.m. deadline. It is widely expected that both players will seek contract buyouts from the Knicks if they are not traded again before the deadline so they can seek roster spots with playoff-bound teams for the remainder of the season. Yet it should be noted that Jordan is one of Durant’s closest friends, which might factor into where he wants to be in the months ahead.Porzingis, whose selection at No. 4 over all by the Knicks in the 2015 draft was initially panned by critics, made steady progress in his first two and a half seasons and was averaging 22.7 points, 6.6 rebounds and 2.4 blocks per game at the time of his injury. Perhaps as impressively, when healthy, Porzingis consistently gave the impression that he had the fortitude to thrive in the intense, media-driven atmosphere that surrounds the Knicks in New York.There will now be immense pressure on the Knicks to land players at the Durant/Irving level to justify the trade — assuming Porzingis recovers fully from his A.C.L. tear. Kemba Walker, the Charlotte Hornets’ All-Star guard, is another free agent known to interest the Knicks.No matter what happens in the free-agent market this summer, Dallas has furnished the Knicks with two attractive draft assets. The Mavericks surrendered their first available first-round pick (2021 at the earliest) that has no protections and a pick protected only through the first 10 choices (as early as the 2023 draft). Dallas was not permitted to trade its top pick in the draft this June because it already traded that selection to Atlanta in the deal last June to acquire the draft rights to Doncic. Regardless, the Knicks are already looking ahead.“We’re extremely confident in the direction that we’re headed,” Perry said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Golden State Warriors celebrated their final regular-season game in Oracle Arena with a third-quarter explosion Sunday night, producing a 131-104 win over the Los Angeles Clippers in Oakland, Calif., that clinched top seeding throughout the Western Conference playoffs.The win was Golden State's fifth in a row and 30th of the season at home. The Warriors' first-round opponent, which will be the eighth seed in the West, has yet to be determined. The playoffs begin next Saturday.The Clippers' third straight loss dropped them to 47-34 and closer to a first-round matchup with the Warriors. The Clippers are battling Oklahoma City (47-33) and San Antonio (47-34), both of which won Sunday, for the sixth, seventh and eighth playoff spots in the West.Curry finished with a game-high 27 points for the Warriors, who improved their all-time regular-season record at Oracle Arena to 1,166-770. Like the Warriors, all five Clippers starters scored in double figures, led by Landry Shamet with 17. All but two of Shamet's points came on 5-for-6 3-point shooting.Trail Blazers 115, Nuggets 108Damian Lillard scored 30 points, and Al-Farouq Aminu added a season-high 23 points and 11 rebounds as Portland rallied for a victory over visiting Denver.The Trail Blazers closed the game on a 17-3 run to register their ninth win in the last 11 games. CJ McCollum made his return to the Portland lineup after missing 10 games with a knee injury. McCollum collected nine points, six rebounds and six assists in 25 minutes.Gary Harris scored 18 points to lead Denver, which won the season series with Portland 3-1. The Nuggets played without center Nikola Jokic, forward Paul Millsap and guard Jamal Murray, all given the night off for rest. They need to win their final two games, or get one win and a Rockets loss in their finale at the Thunder, to secure the West's No. 2 seed.Bucks 115, Hawks 107Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 30 points with nine rebounds, and Khris Middleton added 21 as Milwaukee recorded its first 60-victory season since 1980-81 in beating visiting Atlanta.Antetokounmpo, who is now six points away from 2,000 for the second consecutive season, was back on the court for the Eastern Conference champions after missing Saturday's game against the Brooklyn Nets because of a sore left calf.Alex Len scored a career-high 33 points for the Hawks, who were playing without starters John Collins (ankle) and Trae Young (wrist). DeAndre' Bembry added 13 points for Atlanta, which already has been eliminated from playoff contention.Nets 108, Pacers 96D'Angelo Russell scored 20 points, and Brooklyn clinched its first playoff berth since 2015 by leading most of the way in a win over host Indiana.The Nets clinched at least the seventh seed after the Detroit Pistons lost to the Charlotte Hornets earlier Sunday, and could have secured the No. 6 seed if Orlando had lost its game at Boston later on Sunday. Russell shot 7-for-15 and made a 3-pointer for the 60th straight game.The Pacers lost for the ninth time in 12 games and officially are locked into the fifth seed. Even if Indiana and Boston finish tied, the Celtics own the head-to-head tiebreaker. Domantas Sabonis led Indiana with 17 points and Thaddeus Young -- who was a starting forward in 2015 for the Nets -- added 16.Magic 116, Celtics 108Orlando clinched its first postseason berth in seven years with a road win against Boston, ended the Magic's longest playoff drought in franchise historyTerrence Ross scored 14 of his 26 points in the fourth quarter, and Nikola Vucevic had 25 points and 12 rebounds for the Magic, who were perfect (22-for-22) from the free-throw line. The Magic are tied with Brooklyn for the sixth seed in the Eastern Conference with one game left in the regular season.Kyrie Irving led the Celtics with 23 points, and Al Horford added 18.Raptors 117, Heat 109Danny Green scored 21 points -- including seven in overtime -- as Toronto defeated visiting Miami, sweeping the four-game season series.Miami's playoff hopes were severely damaged by the loss. The Heat are now one game behind the Pistons -- and tied with the Hornets -- in the race for the eighth and final playoff spot in the East.Pascal Siakam added 23 points and grabbed 10 rebounds, and Norman Powell also had 23 points off the bench for the Raptors. Dwyane Wade scored 21 points for the Heat, who have lost four in a row.Hornets 104, Pistons 91Kemba Walker scored 31 points, Frank Kaminsky added a season-high 24 and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive in beating host Detroit for its third straight win, clinching a four-game sweep of the season series.The Hornets (38-42) moved into ninth place in the Eastern Conference playoff race and are one game behind the No. 8 Pistons (39-41). Charlotte holds the tiebreaker edge over both the Heat and the Pistons.Walker added eight rebounds and seven assists and the Hornets also got 17 points from Jeremy Lamb. Detroit has now lost four straight and seven of its last nine. Blake Griffin scored 16 but was hobbling much of the day with a knee injury.Rockets 149, Suns 113James Harden flirted with a triple-double, Clint Capela posted added 22 points and 13 rebounds, and Houston closed out its home schedule with a 36-point dismantling of Phoenix.The Rockets turned in their second consecutive blowout win on their home court to keep hold of the third seed in the Western Conference. Houston led 117-77 entering the fourth quarter against the short-handed Suns. The Rockets have won six straight, all by double digits by an average of 25.8 points per game.Harden posted 30 points on 10-for-14 shooting with 13 rebounds and nine assists as the Rockets set an NBA record with 27 3-pointers. The Suns, missing a half dozen regulars, have dropped eight of their last 10 games.Thunder 132, Timberwolves 126Paul George and Russell Westbrook each scored 27 points as Oklahoma City had to come from behind, scoring 37 fourth-quarter points, to win its third consecutive game by beating Minnesota in Minneapolis.Oklahoma City's first three-game winning streak since winning four in a row from Feb. 5-11 has kept the Thunder in contention for the sixth spot in the Western Conference.Westbrook also finished with 10 rebounds and 15 assists for his 136th career triple-double. Westbrook is just two behind Magic Johnson for second all-time in the category. Karl-Anthony Towns finished with 35 points, hitting 13 of 14 from the free-throw line, and Andrew Wiggins had 24 points.Spurs 112, Cavaliers 90LaMarcus Aldridge scored 18 points, including 16 in the first half to a big lead, as visiting San Antonio throttled Cleveland in the teams' penultimate game of the regular season.The Spurs' victory, their third in their past four games, allows them to continue to put pressure on Oklahoma City and the Los Angeles Clippers in the battle for the final three playoff seeds in the West.DeRozan, Davis Bertans and Patty Mills contributed 14 points apiece for the Spurs, while Forbes scored 13. Collin Sexton and Brandon Knight led the anemic Cavaliers' attack with 16 points each, while Ante Zizic added 14.Lakers 113, Jazz 109Kentavious Caldwell-Pope scored 18 of his 32 points in the fourth quarter to help Los Angeles hold off visiting Utah, whose chances of gaining home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs were damaged.The Jazz (49-31), who also saw their seven-game winning streak snapped, trail Portland by two games for fourth place in the West with two games left for each team.JaVale McGee had 22 points and eight rebounds, and Alex Caruso had 18 points and 11 assists for the Lakers. Rudy Gobert had 21 points and 10 rebounds to lead the Jazz. Donovan Mitchell scored 19 points but missed all 10 shots in the second half.Mavericks 129, Grizzlies 127 (OT)Reserve guard Devin Harris buried a tie-breaking 3-pointer with 1:26 to go in overtime, and Trey Burke scored a team-high 24 points to lead visiting Dallas past Memphis.Backup center Salah Mejri slammed home key dunks in the latter part of the fourth quarter, tipped home the tying bucket with 1.5 seconds in regulation and then opened overtime with seven consecutive points. He finished with 19 points off the bench on 7-of-12 shooting to go with nine rebounds.Starting for injured point guard Mike Conley, Delon Wright had a triple-double for the Grizzlies with 20 points, 12 assists and 13 rebounds. Justin Holiday scored a game-high 30 points, drilling six of his 11 3-point attempts.Pelicans 133, Kings 129Elfrid Payton had a double-double and made a 3-pointer that put visiting New Orleans ahead for good in a victory over Sacramento.The injury-plagued Pelicans used just eight players after choosing to rest forward Julius Randle, but all five starters had scored in double figures by the middle of the third quarter. Payton finished with 26 points and 14 assists, while Ian Clark made a career-high seven 3-pointers as he scored a season-high 31 points.Harrison Barnes scored 29 points, De'Aaron Fox had 24 points and 11 assists, and Marvin Bagley III had 19 points and 14 rebounds for the Kings (39-42), who are guaranteed a losing record for the 13th consecutive season.Knicks 113, Wizards 110Mario Hezonja scored 30 points and hit a 3-pointer with 44.8 seconds left that gave New York the lead for good in a win over visiting Washington.In his second start at point guard in place of injured Emmanuel Mudiay, Hezonja made 12 of 21 shots for the Knicks, who had lost 11 of their previous 12 against the Wizards. The Knicks (16-64) must win their final two games to avoid matching the worst record in franchise history, set in 2014-15.Jeff Green had 19 points in 16 minutes for Washington, which has lost three straight. Thomas Bryant added 17 points, and Bobby Portis contributed 11 points and 10 rebounds.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressThe Nets were all business on Sunday. They started fast. They closed hard. And they refused to let anything, even a frequent nemesis, block their playoff path.Instead, the Nets beat Indiana at its own physical game and earned their first playoff berth in four years with a 108-96 victory on the road — though the muted locker room celebration made it hard to tell if players were more relieved or excited that the drought was over.“It means a lot, obviously to exceed expectations for a lot of us in here, to see how far we’ve come,” Joe Harris said after scoring 18 of his 19 points in the decisive first half. “It means a ton. Hopefully, it’s a sign of things to come for this organization.”After starting the season 8-18, the Nets (41-40) fought back to clinch their first nonlosing record in four years and can make it a winning season by beating Miami in Wednesday’s regular-season finale. They have the same record as Orlando; the Nets will finish sixth and the Magic seventh with a win or an Orlando loss. The Nets will be no worse than seventh.“There was another level of focus, another level of being locked in,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “They wanted it so bad, there was an extra energy there in these past few games.”The Nets, who got 20 points from D’Angelo Russell and 18 from Caris LeVert, ended a nine-game losing streak against the Pacers and a seven-game losing streak in Indianapolis that dated to March 2015.Domantas Sabonis had 17 points and 12 rebounds for Indiana, which has lost two straight at home and five of seven over all, locking the Pacers into the No. 5 seed in the East.“They were playing for something and they went out and showed it,” the Pacers’ Myles Turner said of the Nets.KNICKS 113, WIZARDS 110 Mario Hezonja scored a career-high 30 points and made the go-ahead 3-pointer with 44 seconds left, and the Knicks beat Washington at Madison Square Garden for the first time in nine games over six years.Luke Kornet added 17 points and Kevin Knox had 16 for the Knicks (16-64), who would have tied the franchise record for losses had they not rallied from a 10-point deficit after three quarters.“There’s no quitters in this locker room, in this organization, and we’re just showing we have a great chemistry going around and it resulted in a win,” Hezonja said. “So we’re not paying attention to standings or whatever it is. We just treat it as a development year and hopefully it results in something big next year.”The Knicks have to win their last two games to avoid at least matching their 17-65 record under Derek Fisher in 2014-15.HORNETS 104, PISTONS 91 Kemba Walker scored 20 of his 31 points in the first half to help Charlotte win at Detroit.The Hornets won their third in a row to keep their East playoff hopes alive. Charlotte and Miami are tied for ninth, a game behind Detroit. All three teams have two games left.RAPTORS 117, HEAT 109 Pascal Siakam had 23 points and 10 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard scored 22 points, and host Toronto won in overtime, further denting Miami’s fading playoff hopes.MAGIC 116, CELTICS 108 Terrence Ross had 26 points, Nikola Vucevic added 25 points and 12 rebounds, and Orlando rallied at Boston to clinch its first playoff berth in seven years.WARRIORS 131, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 27 points as Golden State clinched the Western Conference’s top seed, beating Los Angeles in the Warriors’ final regular-season game at Oracle Arena.3-POINTER RECORD James Harden scored 30 points in just three quarters as the Houston Rockets broke their N.B.A. record by making 27 3-pointers in a 149-113 home win against Phoenix. Eric Gordon led the way with eight 3-pointers, and Harden had five.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — Dwyane Wade scored 30 points in the tribute-filled final home game of his career, and the Miami Heat defeated the Philadelphia 76ers 122-99 on Tuesday night.Bam Adebayo scored 19, Justise Winslow scored 16 and Hassan Whiteside added 15 for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention when Detroit beat Memphis — a result that went final during the third quarter of the Miami-Philly game.Wade's career will end Wednesday in Brooklyn, when Miami plays its regular-season finale. He checked out for the last time with 1:02 left, embracing teammates and his son Zaire — who was on the Heat bench.Greg Monroe scored 18 points and Ben Simmons scored 16 for Philadelphia, which entered Tuesday already locked into the No. 3 seed for the Eastern Conference playoffs and rested Joel Embiid and J.J. Redick. Simmons played only 21 minutes, Tobias Harris shot 3 for 16 in 20 minutes and Jimmy Butler scored only four points in 16 minutes.Butler did get one prize — he was the recipient of Wade's final postgame jersey exchange with an opponent.Jonathon Simmons scored 14 for the 76ers.Wade scored the first basket of the game on a dunk, Philadelphia scored the next eight — and it was all Miami the rest of the way. Winslow had three 3-pointers and Wade scored six points in a 22-2 Heat run that put Miami in control early, and the outcome was never in question again.The final minutes were all Wade. He swished a 3-pointer. He banked in a pair of them. He got slapped on his backside by a fan — in this case, it was permitted, since the fan was his wife Gabrielle Union-Wade. He scored 14 of his points in that final quarter.It was his night, and only his night.The game was the sideshow.The reason every seat was filled was Wade.There was a pregame ceremony, capping a day of tributes. Former President Barack Obama sent a video that was played during the first quarter. Wade's oldest sons and his nephew appeared in taped messages as well. John Legend and Chrissy Teigen were courtside, as was Heat legend Chris Bosh and his wife Adrienne.The ovations were constant, as were the "M-V-P" chants. And one of the loudest roars came with 11:05 left, when Wade and Udonis Haslem — the only two players to play for all three Heat championship teams, and the longest-tenured Heat players ever — checked in together.TIP-INS76ers: This is the first time Philadelphia has posted consecutive seasons of 50 or more wins since 1984-85 and 1985-86. ... Philadelphia missed 17 of its first 18 tries from 3-point range.Heat: It took Haslem less than a minute to do one of the things he does best — take a charge. ... Wade played in 575 games in a Heat uniform at home. Miami won 401 of them, and he scored 13,323 points in those contests.McGRUDER DECISIONMiami will not be a tax team this year, saving about a $5 million payment because Rodney McGruder was claimed Tuesday by the Los Angeles Clippers — two days after he was waived by the Heat. If Miami had won at Toronto on Sunday, McGruder would likely still be with the Heat. "That was one of the tougher franchise moves our organization has had to make," said coach Erik Spoelstra, who raves about McGruder.REST DAYThe 76ers plan to sit Embiid and Redick again Wednesday, and will also give Ben Simmons and Harris the night off. "Some people like to have a rhythm going into it, some people like to have time off. I don't think you can appoint the perfect formula," 76ers coach Brett Brown said.UP NEXT76ers: Host Chicago on Wednesday.Heat: Visit Brooklyn on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDwyane Wade scored 30 points in a tribute-filled final home game on Tuesday, but despite a 122-99 victory over Philadelphia, the Miami Heat were eliminated from playoff contention.Wade’s career will end Wednesday in Brooklyn. He checked out with 1:02 left, embracing teammates and his son, Zaire.Wade scored the first basket of the game on a dunk, Philadelphia scored the next eight — and it was all Miami the rest of the way.In the final minutes, Wade swished a 3-pointer and banked in two more en route to 14 points in the final quarter.MAVERICKS 120, SUNS 109 Dirk Nowitzki scored a season-high 30 points in what was most likely the final home game of the 40-year-old’s 21st season.The 14-time All-Star scored the team’s first 10 points and passed his previous season high of 21 on a 3-pointer early in the third quarter. The Mavericks end their season Wednesday in San Antonio.Jamal Crawford scored 51 points for Phoenix (19-63), which had by far the worst record in the Western Conference.Fans stood during warm-ups, recording Nowitzki in the layup line on their phones. The 7-foot German obliged with a dunk. Then he had another dunk in the game — his second of the season — in the second half.Nowitzki fought back tears during a tribute video in between the first and second quarters.KNICKS 96, BULLS 86 Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points, Mitchell Robinson added eight points and 17 rebounds and the Knicks escaped the possibility of finishing with the worst record in franchise history.With one game remaining, against Detroit, the Knicks (17-64) can only tie the mark of the 2014-15 team. They already secured the N.B.A.’s worst record and a draft position no worse than fifth.The Bulls, meanwhile, lost for the 32nd time at United Center this season, a franchise record.PISTONS 100, GRIZZLIES 93 Andre Drummond had 20 points and 17 rebounds, as host Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to cling to a playoff spot.Detroit can clinch a bid Wednesday night at New York.HORNETS 124, CAVALIERS 97 Kemba Walker scored 23 points and visiting Charlotte kept its playoff push alive. The Hornets (39-42) must now beat Orlando at home on Wednesday and hope the Pistons (39-42) lose in New York.WARRIORS 112, PELICANS 103 DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds for visiting Golden State, which took Stephen Curry out of the game after nine minutes with a mild foot sprain.The Warriors said Curry was held out as a precaution, having already had clinched the top playoff seed in the Western Conference. They also played without Kevin Durant and Klay Thompson.The game also likely marked the end of the Anthony Davis era in New Orleans. The disgruntled All-Star, who missed his seventh straight game with what the team has officially listed as back spasms, wore a T-shirt that said, “That’s All Folks.”CELTICS 116, WIZARDS 110 Bradley Beal 16 points, five rebounds and four assists — all before halftime — to become the first player in Washington Wizards franchise history to average at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists for a season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFor Dwyane Wade's final NBA game, where else would his so-called Banana Boat Crew members be but on hand to see it?Wade ended his 16-year career Wednesday night when his Miami Heat visited the Brooklyn Nets at the Barclays Center, and among the spectators were his longtime friends and fellow NBA stars LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony.Of course they would be there, James said during the game. James was shut down for several of the Lakers' final games and Paul's Thunder played their final regular-season game Tuesday night. Anthony did not sign with another NBA team after his release from the Rockets this season."Listen, we all started this journey together," James told Fox Sports Southeast. "Obviously CP came into the league a couple years after us, but we have a brotherhood that is just so much more than basketball. CP played last night, we had our last regular-season game last night, and Melo is right here in New York, so we kind of made the plan and made the decision to come up here."The friends often travel together during the summer and picked up the Banana Boat Crew moniker after photos of them riding in one circulated on social media in 2016.James, who won two NBA titles with Wade in Miami, two of the three Wade won altogether, was asked about favorite memories of his friendship with Wade. James said a good answer to that would take a while."I mean, we'd be here all night talking. We'd be here all night talking about the best memories, or the most fond memories I have of D-Wade."The plane rides, the bus rides, the hotels when we get to the city we'd go to the hotel room and just chop it up, the dinners we had on the road, everything we did was always genuine. (There was) always love, and we always wanted the best for one another, no matter the good or the bad."I will say the most founding part was when we lost (to Dallas in 2011). Because, without ‘11, there's no (2013), no (2012 championship) banners hanging up in (AmericanAirlines Arena). That's what made us. That's what made our team."It's been an unbelievable journey for my guy, and I'm happy to be here for the last little part of the road before the train comes to a stop."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDwyane Wade ended his storied career with a triple-double of 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists Wednesday night as the visiting Miami Heat were dealt a 113-94 loss to the Brooklyn Nets, who clinched sixth place in the Eastern Conference.The Nets honored Wade with a video tribute in pregame introductions by highlighting some of his notable shots against them over the course of a 16-year career while the text on the screen read "Thanks for the Memories."With longtime friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony sitting courtside, Wade recorded his fifth career triple-double in his 1,054th regular-season game since entering the league as the fifth overall pick out of Marquette in 2003.Wade played 36 minutes and received a loud hand from fans each time he touched the ball. He made 10 of 28 shots, and his last points were a 3-pointer with 2:48 remaining.Wade exited the court for the last time with 10 seconds remaining. Before leaving the court, he embraced teammates on the floor, then hugged coach Erik Spoelstra and waved to the crowd.After the final buzzer, Wade exchanged hugs at midcourt with Anthony, James, and Paul and posed with pictures with his longtime friends. He then gave his jersey to Anthony.Appropriately, Wade reached his first triple-double since Jan. 13, 2006, by connecting with longtime teammate Udonis Haslem for a jumper in the final minute of the third quarter.Brooklyn (42-40) secured the sixth seed and will open its first postseason series since 2014-15 this weekend in Philadelphia. The Nets also clinched their first winning season since 2013-14 by going 34-22 over their last 56 games since Dec. 7.D'Angelo Russell, who ended his rookie season by appearing in Kobe Bryant's last game in 2016 with the Los Angeles Lakers, led the Nets with 21 points.After Brooklyn took a 63-47 lead into halftime, Russell hit four three 3-pointers in the first two minutes of the third quarter, including three in a span of 46 seconds, as the Nets extended their lead to 75-50. Brooklyn brought a 92-71 edge into the fourth.Miami opened the fourth on a 13-5 run and was within 97-84 when Wade re-entered the game with 7:20 left.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFor Dwyane Wade's final NBA game, where else would his so-called Banana Boat Crew members be but on hand to see it?Wade ended his 16-year career with a bang Wednesday night, producing his fifth career triple-double as he amassed 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in the Miami Heat's 113-94 loss to the Brooklyn Nets.Sitting courtside to watch Wade in his final NBA game were his longtime friends and fellow NBA stars LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony.Of course they would be there, James said during the game. James was shut down for several of the Lakers' final games and Paul's Houston Rockets played their final regular-season game Tuesday night. Anthony did not sign with another NBA team after his release from the Chicago Bulls this season after he was traded by the Rockets."Listen, we all started this journey together," James told Fox Sports Southeast. "Obviously CP came into the league a couple years after us, but we have a brotherhood that is just so much more than basketball. CP played last night, we had our last regular-season game last night, and Melo is right here in New York, so we kind of made the plan and made the decision to come up here."The friends often travel together during the summer and picked up the Banana Boat Crew moniker after photos of them riding in one circulated on social media in 2016.James, who won two NBA titles with Wade in Miami, two of the three Wade won altogether, was asked about favorite memories of his friendship with Wade. James said a good answer to that would take a while."I mean, we'd be here all night talking. We'd be here all night talking about the best memories, or the most fond memories I have of D-Wade."The plane rides, the bus rides, the hotels when we get to the city we'd go to the hotel room and just chop it up, the dinners we had on the road, everything we did was always genuine. (There was) always love, and we always wanted the best for one another, no matter the good or the bad."I will say the most founding part was when we lost (to Dallas in 2011). Because, without '11, there's no (2013), no (2012 championship) banners hanging up in (AmericanAirlines Arena). That's what made us. That's what made our team."It's been an unbelievable journey for my guy, and I'm happy to be here for the last little part of the road before the train comes to a stop."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — A flight was awaiting Miami Heat President Pat Riley on Saturday, just as he hoped.It just wasn't to Toronto or Milwaukee for Game 1 of a playoff series. That's the problem.Riley's second home in Malibu, California, is one of his happy places — though with the NBA playoffs starting this weekend, Malibu is about the last place he wants be right now. The playoffs aren't on Riley's calendar this season, so he's taking 10 blue notebooks to Malibu and plans to fill them with ideas on how to make sure that's not the case in 2020."I'm going to write and write and write and write," Riley said. "That's where we are for the next couple of weeks. Once the hangover subsides, then we'll have more coherent thought."A challenging offseason awaits the Heat, who went 39-43 this season and will return for training camp in about five months without Dwyane Wade — probably their best player this season, and at times certainly their most important player. Wade is retiring, and if the Heat have plans to remake their roster before next season they'll likely need some willing trade partners to make things happen.Miami already has players signed to about $140 million worth of deals for next season. Flexibility is not something Riley figures to have much of when its time to wheel and deal on the trade and free-agent markets."Very, very disappointed. I'm disappointed in myself. Obviously," Riley said Saturday, as he sat alone on a stage set up on the Heat practice court — one that figures to not be in much use for the next couple weeks while players rest and recover. "This has not come together the way that I thought it would. I thought this year that we would be in the top half of the Eastern Conference."The Heat finished 10th in the East. They beat 13 of the 16 playoff-bound teams — the only ones who swept Miami were Denver (2-0), Indiana (3-0) and Toronto (4-0). But the Heat also lost at least once to nine of the 13 other teams that didn't make the playoffs — going 1-3 against Atlanta, plus 0-2 against the Los Angeles Lakers, Sacramento Kings and Minnesota Timberwolves."There's going to be changes next year," Riley said. "Not a new culture, but tightening the screws on a culture that sometimes erodes just a little bit."Riley said the team is a long way from personnel decisions and draft strategy. The Heat want Dion Waiters slimmer and believe his game would explode if he got into world-class condition. They're still — in what seems like an annual occurrence now — figuring out how best to use Hassan Whiteside, who has a $27.1 million player option for next season. They believe James Johnson will be better. They hope Udonis Haslem returns for a 17th season.But one thing that Riley knows must change is the home record. Miami was awful at home this year, going 19-22. Only five teams were worse, and Riley was bothered by the Heat penchant for getting big leads and then letting them slip away."The last thing I want to do is send our fans into the beautiful night of Miami, cheering like crazy in the first half with a 20-point lead and leaving with a one-point loss," Riley said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn College BasketballBy Harvey AratonWASHINGTON — Trey Mourning had one foot out the door at Georgetown when Uncle Patrick became Coach Ewing. He turned around and went to a team meeting.Ewing-Mourning roots run deep at Georgetown. But they also intersect at a crucial moment in the N.B.A.’s evolution on the court and are thicker, even, than the figurative blood that was spilled in one of the most ferocious rivalries in league history.That warfare involved the Knicks and the Miami Heat. Every N.B.A. playoffs from 1997 to 2000 featured — among other ultimate fighting showdowns occasionally resembling basketball — a main event involving two throwback centers: Patrick Ewing and Trey’s father, Alonzo, both of Georgetown pedigree.A decade and a half later, after a dominant career at Ransom Everglades, a prep school in Miami’s Coconut Grove neighborhood, Trey Mourning enrolled at Georgetown in 2014, months before his father was inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame. He did so essentially for three reasons: the university’s academic reputation, his family legacy and extended family relationships.John Thompson III was the head coach at Georgetown, but more of an enticement, Trey Mourning said, was the presence on the staff of Ewing’s son, Patrick Jr.“The Ewings are like family to me,” he said. “The Thompsons are family, but I use air quotes. That’s kind of how I look at it.”Over the next three seasons, he proceeded to mostly ride Thompson’s bench, registering no more than the 5.9 minutes he logged per game as a sophomore. With his senior year approaching, he was loath to conclude his college career without much time on the court, without opportunity.It is, however, a complex web that Georgetown weaves. Thompson was relieved after the 2016-17 season and replaced by Patrick Ewing, a hire inspired by Thompson’s father, known around campus as Big John, who coached Patrick Ewing and Alonzo Mourning at Georgetown and remains a mentor to both.Suddenly, Trey Mourning, a 6-foot-9 forward, had a more difficult decision to make regarding a potential transfer. Though Patrick Jr.’s assistant coaching position would be eliminated because of an anti-nepotism policy, the young Mourning could not dismiss the chance to play under the senior Ewing, who is actually listed in Trey’s smartphone as Uncle Patrick.They had a private sit-down, during which Ewing told him, “Put in the work, you’ll play.”No problem, Trey thought. If there was one thing ingrained in him by his father, it was an ethic that across 15 N.B.A. seasons of low-post warfare was best exemplified by Alonzo Mourning’s refusal to pack it in after a kidney transplant in 2003.Trey wound up sitting out his senior year at Georgetown with a hip injury, but he had been starting as a graduate student this season. He averaged 23.5 minutes, 7.7 points and 5.4 rebounds a game in the team’s first 11 games, but was idled recently by a concussion — his status is “day-to-day.” (Georgetown is 11-3 over all as it enters an early but important Big East matchup with St. John’s, which is 13-1 over all, on Saturday afternoon in Washington.) In a game against Campbell on Nov. 24, Mourning had career highs of 27 points and 12 rebounds.Watching was his father, who works in Miami for the Heat and sat in the stands at Washington’s Capital One Arena for the only time this season, along with Trey’s brother, Alijah.“Sweetest night so far,” Trey said.Trey Mourning’s game is less bullish than his father’s, reflecting the sport’s dramatic shift since those Heat-Knicks conflagrations, which often ended with neither team within squinting view of 90 points, much less 100. Compelling as the games were, unequaled at the time in raw intensity, they contributed mightily to N.B.A. rule changes in 2004 and the contemporary mix of unimpeded driving and long-distance shooting.“The N.B.A. did what they did because they wanted to make sure fans would come,” Ewing said. “It worked — look how popular it is. But I still get people coming up to me, saying they miss those days.”He and his buddy Alonzo can reminisce all they want about the punishment Michael Jordan absorbed against the Knicks’ and the Heat’s brutish defenses. It would be different now. “Imagine what Michael would do in today’s N.B.A.,’’ Mourning said in a telephone interview. ”He’d probably average 50.”And what can Ewing — 56 and hoping for head-coaching longevity — do but go with the flow?Trey Mourning, in fact, recalled working on low-post defense in high school with his father while a visiting Ewing watched from the sideline.“Patrick would be sitting there and, knowing the rule book, being a coach in the N.B.A., he’d say, ‘Oh, no, we can’t teach him that way, that’s illegal,’” Trey said.But in the 1990s, little seemed out of line, or beyond the realm of anarchic possibility, when Pat Riley’s Heat and Jeff Van Gundy’s Knicks staged an N.B.A. production of the Hatfields and McCoys — although the rivalry was also a knockoff of “All in the Family.”Besides the Ewing-Mourning connection, Riley coached the Knicks from 1991 to 1995 before moving to Miami, and Van Gundy, his assistant in New York, held the job until 2001. In Miami, Riley hired another Van Gundy — Jeff’s brother, Stan.There was a night in May 1999 when the Heat pulled away in the fourth quarter to force a decisive fifth game of a first-round playoff series, and the Knicks’ Latrell Sprewell, out of frustration and just for the fun of it, slammed the Heat’s Terry Porter to the floor on a fast break.A furious Stan Van Gundy bolted upright from his seat next to Riley and stormed down the Heat’s inflamed bench, yelling: “Remember all that. Remember what they do.”“They,” of course, being the team coached by his kid brother.“What Riley taught his players was to compete with an intent to dominate and annihilate your competition, mentally and physically,” Alonzo Mourning said. “When he coached the Knicks, he planted that seed. Then he coached the Heat and he planted that same seed. He literally built two monsters.”“Mirror images,” Ewing said.Yet somehow, against all odds of tribal conflict, the Ewing-Mourning friendship was never shaken, much less severed. Not even when Ewing was suspended for a crucial playoff game between the two teams in 1997 after wandering harmlessly off the bench during a brawl under the basket, costing the Knicks a chance to play in the Eastern Conference finals.And not after a slugfest broke out between Mourning and Larry Johnson, a former teammate in Charlotte, in the waning seconds of Game 4 of a first-round series between the Knicks and the Heat in 1998. That resulted in a Mourning suspension, his absence from a Knicks’ Game 5 rout in Miami and a hilarious photo of Jeff Van Gundy almost levitating while clasping Mourning’s leg.Count Van Gundy among those who miss such pugnacity. “It’s not an us-versus-them mentality as much,” he told ESPN’s Adrian Wojnarowski recently. “You’re hard-pressed to find a true rivalry anymore where there’s a little bit of edginess or bad blood.”Paradoxically, Ewing and Mourning, following the lead of Magic Johnson and Larry Bird, set a precedent for contemporary stars with their repudiation of Riley’s no-frenemies policy.“Pat used to get mad when he was the Knicks’ coach and I’d go out with Alonzo and Dikembe,” Ewing said, tossing in Mutombo, another Georgetown veteran. “He’d tell me, ‘You got to stay away from those guys.’ But whenever we played, starting with the summer workouts at Georgetown, we’d try to kill each other.”Alonzo Mourning said, “And at the end of the day, it was family,”Trey Mourning, a toddler back then, has one notable memory of the Heat-Knicks rivalry, the aftermath of the Porter-Sprewell episode in 1999, otherwise known as the Allan Houston game.Houston’s climactic runner in the lane bounced on the rim before going through the net, breaking Miami’s heart and propelling the Knicks from the threshold of first-round defeat all the way to the N.B.A. finals.“We had a TV in the kitchen — my Nana was there, my two cousins,” Trey said. “I couldn’t comprehend what it all meant yet, but I do remember they showed my dad walking off the court like this.”He put both hands on his head and feigned a look of disbelief.“That game hurt him,” he said. “He still talks about it sometimes.”As Georgetown does not retire jersey numbers, Trey wears his father’s and Ewing’s No. 33. He sat down for a recent interview in a National Kidney Foundation T-shirt, reflecting his father’s work to combat the rare disease — focal glomerulosclerosis — that threatened his life and required the transplant at age 32.As a young teenager, Trey developed a passion for international soccer and asked his father if he could go to the 2014 World Cup in Brazil as a high school graduation present.“I told him I would try to make it happen, and then he went out and learned to speak Portuguese,” Alonzo said. “What 15-year-old does that?”They never made it to Brazil, summer enrollment at Georgetown intervening, but that was the beginning of Trey Mourning’s love affair with language. He has since learned Italian, Spanish, some Greek and French, and hopes to make use of his lingual skills while playing professionally in Europe.“Trey’s been a vocal leader for us,” said Ewing, whose Hoyas start two freshman guards. “He didn’t play much before this season, so he doesn’t have a lot of experience. But he’s grown up with the game; he always wants to learn.”When he finished answering questions in the interview, Trey had a few of his own for a reporter he knew had covered the careers of his father, his coach and that Jordan fellow who always got the better of the Georgetown alumni.“What made Michael so good, in your opinion?” he said, turning on his smartphone recorder.The answer was simple. In addition to his otherworldly skills, Jordan had the same will and work ethic that defined Riley’s teams in Miami and New York.Effort, Trey Mourning was told, can never be legislated out of the game.He nodded. It was nothing he hadn’t heard from his father and his “uncle”-turned-coach, the root of everything they embrace, including each other.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe Philadelphia 76ers made a bold move in the early hours of Wednesday morning to try to seize control of the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference by trading for Tobias Harris, the Los Angeles Clippers’ dynamic forward.In his second trade this season for a player who can become a free agent in July, Philadelphia General Manager Elton Brand surrendered two future first-round picks and two second-round picks in a six-player deal. The clear headliner, though, is Harris, who will join Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, J.J. Redick and Jimmy Butler, November’s acquisition, in what threatens to be the league’s most potent starting lineup outside of Golden State.The cost for Philadelphia was significant. The Sixers gave up their first-round pick in 2020 and an unprotected first-round pick in 2021, which they have from the Miami Heat, along with Wilson Chandler, Mike Muscala and Landry Shamet, a rookie guard. In return, Philadelphia will receive Harris, Boban Marjanovic and Mike Scott.“We are in a unique position to contend now, and we think this trade positions us well for the postseason,” Brand said in a statement.Philadelphia entered Wednesday’s play as the East’s No. 5 seed at 34-20, six games behind Milwaukee (39-13). The Sixers’ twofold challenge now will be establishing a chemistry among its new five-man core in the 28 games left before the playoffs and then re-signing Harris and Butler this summer after making two of this season’s biggest trades to get them.Harris emerged as an All-Star contender for the Clippers this season by averaging 20.9 points and 7.9 rebounds per game. His move to Philadelphia gives the Sixers another much-needed shooter (.496 from the field and .434 from 3-point range) alongside Redick.In making this trade, the Clippers ultimately decided that the draft picks Philadelphia offered were too valuable to pass up as they prepare for a big summer in which they are widely considered to be the league’s strongest threat to lure Kawhi Leonard away from the Toronto Raptors in free agency.The Clippers, at 30-25, have been one of this season’s surprise teams and sit at No. 8 in the Western Conference. But earlier this week, they also were named as one of four teams that Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans is willing to sign with long-term. This deal adds two more potentially enticing trade chips for the Clippers to offer the Pelicans for Davis — who has requested a trade — or to use in pursuit of other elite players.With Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline approaching, teams across the league, especially Philadelphia’s top rivals in the East, are running out of time to make their own moves to try to keep pace.The Boston Celtics, according to numerous reports, have been urging the Pelicans not to trade Davis until after the season, since league rules prevent Boston from trading for Davis while both he and Celtics guard Kyrie Irving are playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. The Toronto Raptors, meanwhile, have reportedly expressed trade interest in the very available Memphis Grizzlies duo of Marc Gasol and Mike Conley.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCount Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James among those who were stunned by team president Magic Johnson's resignation on Tuesday night. But according to ESPN's Ramona Shelburne on Wednesday, James still stands behind the organization and Lakers owner Jeanie Buss.ESPN also reported that head coach Luke Walton participated in exit meetings with the players on Wednesday. Walton's job security is in jeopardy after the Lakers (37-45) missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season despite the offseason signing of James to a four-year, $154 million deal.James, 34, battled injuries and appeared in a career-low 55 games and averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists per game in 2018-19.--Following his meeting with Walton, James headed to New York, where he, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony watched Dwyane Wade play his final NBA game. The Miami Heat closed out the season against the Brooklyn Nets.After a pregame video tribute to Wade, the retiring superstar went over and hugged each of his three friends. The four have been friends for years, their bond immortalized by a photo of James, Wade and Paul riding a banana boat together while on vacation in 2015. Anthony was not in the picture but was also on vacation with the group.--Boston Celtics guard Marcus Smart has a torn left oblique and could miss the first two rounds of the Eastern Conference playoffs, according to a report from ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski.Smart averaged 8.9 points, 4.0 assists and 2.9 rebounds this season for the Celtics, who will be the fourth seed in the East after posting a 49-33 regular-season record. Boston will open at home this weekend against the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers. The physical guard is noted as one of the NBA's top defenders.Smart sustained the injury in a game against the Orlando Magic on Sunday, and he did not play in Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.--Anthony Davis acknowledged that despite his desire to leave New Orleans, he could begin the 2019-20 season with the Pelicans."I'm under contract still," Davis said during an informal season-ending news conference. "I have a year left. Obviously it's a possibility it could happen. I don't have ill will toward anybody. I know that it's a possibility that next year I could be here as well. So I can't be mad if I'm here next year."Davis said his next step will be to see who emerges as the general manager for the Pelicans. Dell Demps was fired in February after his handling of the Davis situation, and Danny Ferry is the interim general manager.--The Phoenix Suns have hired longtime NBA general manager Jeff Bower as their vice president of operations, Wojnarowski reported.Bower, 57, was general manager of the then-New Orleans Hornets from October 2005 to July 2010, and he also served as the team's head coach for most of the 2009-10 season after the firing of Byron Scott.The Suns have been without a general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.--The Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.Saunders, 32, is the youngest head coach in the league. He took over when Tom Thibodeau was fired in early January and has earned the endorsement of his players, most notably from All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.The Timberwolves were 36-45 entering Wednesday night's season finale at Denver, including a 17-24 mark under Saunders' leadership. Saunders reportedly will receive a three-year deal with a team option on the final season.--The Timberwolves also announced that guard Jeff Teague underwent successful debridement surgery Tuesday to clean out his left ankle. The team had no additional updates as to any recovery timetable.Teague played in 42 games for the Minnesota this season, averaging 12.1 points and a career-best 8.2 assists in 30.1 minutes. The team shut him down for the season in mid-March.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherWhen Derick Brassard was traded from the Florida Panthers to the Colorado Avalanche on Monday, his transportation logistics were not too tricky. He just headed over to the other team’s locker room. The Panthers and the Avalanche faced off Monday night, and Brassard duly scored a goal for his new team.In other offbeat N.H.L. trade-deadline news, Mikael Granlund was sent from the Minnesota Wild to the Nashville Predators on Monday while his partner was in labor.When you think about it, a trade is a strange thing. Imagine showing up to work tomorrow and finding yourself sent to Albuquerque along with Bob from Accounting for some young coding prospects.Given all the trades in all the sports over the years, it is not surprising that there have been some unusual ones.Guys have been traded for one, two, three, four or even five other players. Players have been traded for just about anything but a bucket of balls. Oh, wait. Scratch that. Tim Fortugno, a minor league pitcher, was sent from the Reno Silver Sox to the Stockton Brewers in 1989 for $2,500 and some baseballs. “I told them to throw in 12 dozen balls and we had a deal,” Jack Patton, the Silver Sox general manager, told The Los Angeles Times.Other legendary baseball swaps: Cy Young in 1890 for a new suit, and Ken Krahenbuhl in 1998 for catfish. Not Catfish Hunter, but 10 pounds of actual catfish.Teams have traded for coaches, including Jon Gruden, Lou Piniella, Doc Rivers and Bill Belichick. They have even traded for announcers: Ernie Harwell cost the Brooklyn Dodgers a player, Cliff Dapper, in 1948.Sometimes a player is traded for a player to be named later. In the case of Harry Chiti of the Indians in 1962, the player to be named later turned out to be Harry Chiti.In international soccer, trades are more unusual, but it’s not uncommon for smaller teams to ask bigger teams to agree to a lucrative friendly game as a part of a transfer deal.Forget three-team trades. There have been four-team trades, including the one in the N.B.A. that sent Dwight Howard to the Los Angeles Lakers in 2012. There has even been a five-team trade, a 13-player blockbuster in 2005 that sent Antoine Walker to the Miami Heat.One of the more memorable trades of recent years never actually happened. During a Mets home game in 2015, word reached the dugout and the many fans with smartphones that Wilmer Flores was being traded. Flores continued to play in the game, and the clued-in fans cheered the player in his “final” game as a Met. Flores was seen with tears in his eyes.Only the deal fell through. Flores remained a Met, and he quickly went from fan favorite to beloved Met hero for the next three years. (He was released in November.)Perhaps the strangest trade of all took place in 1979. The Philadelphia 76ers sent Harvey Catchings and Ralph Simpson to the Nets for Eric Money and Al Skinner.So what’s unusual? No, it’s not that Simpson’s daughter is the singer India Arie.The two teams had played each other in November, with the 76ers winning in double overtime. But the Nets protested the game, arguing that a number of technical fouls had been called improperly. The commissioner agreed and ordered the last part of the game to be replayed. The replay was scheduled for March.But by then the trade had taken place. Now four players were on different teams than when the game began.Sure enough, the final box score credits Money with 23 points for the Nets and 4 for the Sixers. Catchings and Simpson also played for both teams in the game.That’s a story that’s going to be hard to beat. Remember those four players who were traded in the middle of the third quarter?Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — At the end of a disastrous season in which the Los Angeles Lakers failed to make the playoffs, despite having added LeBron James via free agency, Magic Johnson made the stunning announcement on Tuesday that he was stepping down as the team’s president of basketball operations.Johnson delivered the news at an impromptu news conference before the Lakers’ regular-season finale, against the Portland Trail Blazers, and he said he had not yet informed Jeanie Buss, the team’s controlling owner. In fact, he had told nearly no one before he addressed a mass of hastily assembled reporters.“I couldn’t face her to tell her,” he said, referring to Buss. He later added that he would find her at Staples Center to address her in person.Earvin, I loved working side by side with you. You’ve brought us a long way. We will continue the journey. We love you 💜💛 https://t.co/ofmQl6BtBzLater, the team released a statement, calling Johnson “not only a Lakers icon, but our family.”[Magic Johnson’s biggest moments running the Lakers.]“There is no greater Los Angeles Laker than Earvin Johnson,” the statement read, using Johnson’s formal name. “We are deeply grateful to Magic for all that he has done for our franchise — as a player, an ambassador and an executive.”The statement continued, “As we begin the process of moving forward, we will work in a measured and methodical fashion to make the right moves for the future of our organization.”“Measured” and “methodical” would be an about-face from the way Johnson stepped down. It was a surreal scene as he fielded questions for nearly 45 minutes after he made his announcement, appearing to hold back tears at times, and repeatedly said that he loved Buss like a sister. He then posed for pictures with team employees, former teammates and a local news anchor.“I want to go back to having fun,” Johnson, 59, said. “I want to go back to being who I was before taking on this job, and we’re halfway there with LeBron coming. I think this summer, with that other star coming in — whoever’s going to come in — I think this team is going to be in position to really contend for a championship with the growth of the other young players.”Johnson was named to the post in February 2017 and said at the time that it was “a dream come true.” But on Tuesday he said that he wanted to get back to being a mentor and a businessman, and that he had felt limited in his ability to do those things in his current role.For example, he said he was upset that he could not attend Dwyane Wade’s final game for the Miami Heat on Tuesday night — or congratulate Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder on Twitter for finishing the regular season averaging another triple-double. (Johnson said the league would have considered it “tampering.”)Johnson also said that he had received a phone call last week from the tennis star Serena Williams, asking if he would be an adviser to her.“When Serena called me, wow, that’s who I am,” Johnson said. “I love helping people.”He added: “I like to be free. And then I got a great life outside of this. What am I doing? I got a beautiful life, so I’m going to go back to that beautiful life, and I’m looking forward to it.”But there is palace intrigue at play, too — these are the Lakers, after all — and Johnson strongly indicated that he had been leaning toward firing Coach Luke Walton. Buss, though, is known to think highly of Walton, a former Laker who has been the team’s coach for three seasons, and Johnson suggested that he did not want to go through with it.“I would have to affect someone’s livelihood and their life,” Johnson said, “and I thought about that. That’s not fun for me. That’s not who I am, and then I don’t want to put her in the middle of us, even though she said, ‘Hey, do what you want to do.’ I know she has great love for him.”The Lakers, who have been downtrodden in recent years, are still one of the most glamorous franchises in the league, and Johnson, who helped the Lakers win five championships as a Hall of Fame point guard, remains one of the organization’s most popular figures.Johnson was hired to replace Jim Buss, the brother of Jeanie Buss. Johnson, who had previously been a partial owner of the team as well, worked alongside Rob Pelinka, a former agent, who was brought in as the team’s general manager. (Johnson said that he had not told Pelinka of his decision to step down, either.)While Johnson had some memorable moments at the helm of the Lakers’ operation, the roster that he and Pelinka built around James was widely considered inadequate. After losing to Portland in their finale, the Lakers had a record of 37-45, which assured them of missing the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season. It is the first losing effort by a James-led team since the star forward’s rookie season in 2003-04, when his Cleveland Cavaliers went 35-47.On Tuesday, Johnson preached patience.“I’m excited about the direction,” he said before he headed out the door.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Dwyane Wade was hurting, sitting on the training table trying to get enough treatment to get him on the floor one last time.A couple of hours later, he looked like a guy capable of playing well beyond the final night of his career.Wade had 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in his last NBA game, which the Brooklyn Nets won by beating the Miami Heat 113-94 on Wednesday night to finish 42-40 and clinch the No. 6 seed in the Eastern Conference.With close friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony leading the cheers from their courtside seats, Wade had his fifth career triple-double in three quarters. He fittingly secured it with a pass to Udonis Haslem, his teammate of 15 years who plays sparingly now and made his only start of the season."I was like, I don't know why, but everybody feels like now you've got to go out and score 60 in your last game because Kobe did it," said Wade, wearing a sparkling gold jacket and gold sneakers. "So hopefully I took the bar all the way back down and say let's go get a triple-double, that's easier."A night after scoring 30 points in his final game in Miami, Wade showed one more time that he's walking away with his skills intact.He played 36 minutes, dribbling out the shot clock the final time he had the ball before checking out with 10 seconds remaining. Then it was time for a lengthy postgame celebration on the court with teammates and friends."The man went out with a triple-double. Don't let that go unnoticed. He had a triple-double," All-Star D'Angelo Russell said. "He is a guy that paved the way for a lot of us. He's been with that franchise for that long period of time. He's Mr. Miami."Russell had 21 points on seven 3-pointers for the Nets, who will face the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers beginning this weekend in their first postseason appearance since 2015, one that seemed unlikely when they were 8-18 in December. But they went 34-22 from there for their first winning record since going 44-38 in 2013-14 — when they were knocked out by Wade's Heat in the second round."Special night," Nets coach Kenny Atkinson said. "Pretty amazing season so far."The game mattered only to the Nets, who quickly ended any fears of finishing seventh and having to face the Toronto Raptors in the first round.But that was secondary to a last chance to celebrate Wade, the three-time NBA champion who was ending his 16th and final NBA season.He was loudly cheered from the moment he emerged alone from the tunnel for pregame layups. Fans — egged on at one point by Paul and Anthony — chanted "We want Wade! We want Wade!" when he was on the bench, even though the 37-year-old guard had played a season-high 35 minutes Tuesday and coach Erik Spoelstra warned before the game that it probably wouldn't be that way again.But there was no keeping Wade down for long. It took him a little bit to get going, as Jarrett Allen added Wade to the list of stars whose shots he's blocked this season — a list that included James."I loved seeing CP and Melo over there getting the crowd going to get Dwyane back in there and Dwyane comes from the old-school NBA," Spoelstra said. "That was pre-load management, so we were not load managing him tonight and I was not talking to my sports scientist whether he could go, even though I walked in and saw him on that training table an hour before the game and he did not look fit to go, at all. But he's cut from a different cloth."The Heat hoped the final game would matter, but the Nets and Orlando Magic had clinched spots over the weekend to leave only one spot left coming into the last week. Miami was eliminated from contention for it despite its victory Tuesday."For me, I'm happy with this season," Wade said. "Unfortunately for our organization and our team, we weren't able to put ourselves in a position to win enough games to be in the playoffs, but for what I wanted for this season, I'm happy to say that I completed that."TIP-INSHeat: Haslem finished with 12 points and 11 rebounds. ... Wade passed Elgin Baylor (23,149 points) to move into 29th place on the NBA's career list. He finished with 23,165.Nets: Starters Joe Harris (toe) and DeMarre Carroll (right wrist) sat out, though Atkinson said they would be ready for the playoff opener. ... Shabazz Napier scored 20 points off the bench.THE LAST JERSEYWade has been exchanging jerseys with players after games this season, but there was one missing. Anthony, who helped persuade Wade to return this season, didn't play long this season before parting ways with Houston. So Wade gave his final one to him."I didn't get an opportunity to play against Melo this year and exchange jerseys with him," Wade said. "That was a missing piece out of this whole season, so everything worked out great for him being here, for me having an opportunity to give him my jersey."___UP NEXTHeat: The offseason.Nets: A first-round playoff matchup against the Philadelphia 76ers.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinDALLAS — Dirk Nowitzki’s final N.B.A. game will take place in the same city — San Antonio — where he played what he considers the most important game of his life as well as what many rank as the best game of his career.Wednesday’s date with the San Antonio Spurs is suddenly poised to be recorded as the final outing of Nowitzki’s 21 seasons with the Dallas Mavericks — thanks to the retirement announcement he sprang on the American Airlines Center crowd after Dallas’s 120-109 victory Tuesday night over the Phoenix Suns.After scoring a season-high 30 points, albeit on 31 shot attempts, Nowitzki punctuated a postgame ceremony arranged to honor his long and decorated career by announcing that he is indeed retiring from the sport.“As you guys might expect, this is my last home game,” Nowitzki told the fans, finally addressing his future after trying to dodge questions on that topic all season in a futile attempt to avoid a so-called farewell tour.The Mavericks’ regular-season finale on the Spurs’ floor thus provides Nowitzki with a serendipitous opportunity to go out where he broke in. It was a 33-point, 14-rebound performance in the 1998 Nike Hoop Summit Game in San Antonio as a 19-year-old that, in Nowitzki’s words, “literally changed my life,” convincing Dallas that it had to do anything it could to draft the little-known German.Nowitzki, 40, went on to overcome a string of playoff disappointments and lead the Mavericks to the only championship in franchise history in 2011. His 21 consecutive seasons with one team is an N.B.A. record — and the 37 points and 15 rebounds he delivered against the five-time champion Tim Duncan in Game 7 of the Western Conference finals in San Antonio in 2006 is widely regarded as his most complete single-game performance.As the game’s sixth career leading scorer with 31,540 points, Nowitzki is often described as the best European import in N.B.A. history and credited with ushering in the modern era of power forward play in which players of all sizes were not only encouraged but expected to shoot proficiently from long range.“He’s our Roger Staubach,” said the longtime Mavericks General Manager Donnie Nelson, who did the loudest lobbying to persuade his father Don, then the Mavericks’ coach and general manager, to make any maneuvers necessary to select Nowitzki in the 1998 draft.Mark Cuban, the team’s owner, announced recently that the reluctant Nowitzki was getting an ornate send-off against the Suns “whether he wants it or not.” The Mavericks duly arranged for five of Nowitzki’s favorite players growing up — Charles Barkley, Scottie Pippen, Shawn Kemp, Detlef Schrempf and even Larry Bird — to fly in, stay out of public view during the game and then emerge to take part in the ceremony.The game itself, predictably, was also all about Nowitzki, with teammates, particularly the league’s rookie of the year favorite, Luka Doncic, feeding him incessantly as fans bayed at him to shoot at every opportunity.Before tipoff, Nowitzki jokingly asked a team staffer to look up how many shots Kobe Bryant took on the way to scoring 60 points in Bryant’s farewell game in April 2016. Informed that Bryant hoisted 50 shots that night, Nowitzki conceded that he very likely wouldn’t reach that territory, but promised to “let it fly.” He wound up taking Dallas’s first eight shots, scored 19 points in the first half and finished with 30 points on 11-for-31 shooting to match what his longtime rival Dwyane Wade of the Miami Heat managed in Wade’s final home game before retirement Tuesday night.The Suns’ Jamal Crawford, at 39, remarkably countered with 51 points, making Crawford the first player in league history to crack the 50-point mark with four different teams. The spotlight, though, never left Nowitzki, who revealed at a news conference after the game that he had decided in recent days that his surgically repaired left foot could not sustain a 22nd season.“I would love to be there for K.P. and Luka and all these young guys and have fun with them and mentor them as much as I can,” Nowitzki said, referring to Dallas’s embryonic star duo of Kristaps Porzingis and Doncic. “But it just doesn’t make any sense anymore physically. I think mentally I could still do it — I can always push myself to work out hard — but physically the foot is just not quite there.”Said Doncic, whose 21 points, 16 rebounds and 11 assists were overshadowed, like Crawford’s scoring outburst, by the Nowitzki party, “I was emotional, and the whole team was emotional, so imagine him.”Nowitzki acknowledged that he has been increasingly weepy over the past week, as the end of the regular season for the lottery-bound Mavericks — and a decision he could no longer delay — drew near. But he was openly giddy when he spoke of the former stars who shared in Tuesday’s festivities, proclaiming it an “amazing” evening.“They did this right,” he said.Asked if he was bothered at all that one more road game remained on Dallas’s schedule, as opposed to closing out the regular season at home, Nowitzki scoffed at the idea that the league’s schedule-makers had wronged him.“I’m totally fine with it,” he said. “The N.B.A. can’t keep up with the plans of a million players. They didn’t know if I was going to retire this season, last season or whatever.”There was likewise no protest from Holger Geschwindner, Nowitzki’s longtime shooting coach and the former captain of West Germany’s 1972 Olympic team. Geschwindner is known in Mavericks circles for being far harder to please than his star pupil, but he embraced the storybook nature of Nowitzki’s returning to the scene of his breakthrough performance at the Hoop Summit by traveling to South Texas one last time.“I think it’s great,” Geschwindner said. “That’s where it all started.”An earlier version of this article incorrectly described Dwyane Wade’s game Tuesday night. It was his final home game in Miami before retirement, not his final game.Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideIn a rookie season that has resembled a seismograph, Knicks forward Kevin Knox needed a performance like Sunday’s against the Los Angeles Lakers. He scored 19 points with an array of shots, slashing to the basket, hitting a step-back 3-pointer while guarded by LeBron James and finishing with finesse on a driving, left-handed layup.“Hello, Kevin Knox. It was good to see him play well,” Knicks Coach David Fizdale said. “He’s had his bumps. We know it’s there, it’s in there. It’s just a matter of the ball going in and him getting his confidence up. But I really thought he came with a mind-set that he was going to get out of this rut. The way he was attacking, the force he was playing with.”Knox shot 8 of 14 from the field and 3 of 5 from 3-point range in the Knicks’ 124-123 victory over the Lakers, their 14th win in a dismal season.“I’d been struggling a little bit, but the whole team and coaching staff had confidence in me,” Knox said. “I came to work every single day, got up extra shots. I knew I was going to come out of the streak, so I just wanted to make sure I kept shooting.”Last year the Knicks selected Knox, a freshman from Kentucky, in the first round of the draft, ninth over all. After an ankle sprain sidelined him at the start of the season, Knox’s play took off in December, when he averaged 17.1 points and was named the Eastern Conference rookie of the month.Knox, 19, hit the rookie wall beginning in mid-January, with a 20-game stretch in which he shot 31.8 percent from the field and 27.7 from beyond the 3-point arc. The slump started soon after he scored 31 points, his highest total in the N.B.A., during a game against the Philadelphia 76ers.Shortly before that, Knox had said that he was still learning how to adjust to the demands of the long N.B.A. schedule and its 48-minute games, compared with a 40 minutes in college and A.A.U. ball.“It’s totally different,” he said in late December. “Eight minutes doesn’t seem like a lot, but it really is. That’s a whole quarter almost. Eight minutes is a long time in basketball.”To improve his fitness, Knox did extra sprints after practice and spent more time on the treadmill, running spurts of 15 minutes with the last two as fast as he could.At various points in the season, Fizdale has brought in former Knicks greats like Bernard King, Patrick Ewing, Bill Bradley and Walt Frazier to speak to his young, struggling team. (The coach, who was a Miami Heat assistant coach when James played for them, also made a point of introducing Knox to the Lakers star after Sunday’s game.)King, who was with the Knicks for five seasons in the mid-1980s, and was known for his seemingly unstoppable baseline turnaround jump shot, has focused especially on mentoring Knox.In between their meetings early in the season, Knox studied online video highlights from King’s career.“He helps my game, every time I talk to him,” Knox said. “He’s kind of like me, a wing that gets to the basket, loves transition. He kind of reminds me of myself.”Perhaps the other way around, rook.Knox said he had sought out his own tutors as well, connecting with Chris Bosh, Grant Hill, Jalen Rose, Carmelo Anthony and former Kentucky players for bits of advice during the trying moments.After Monday night’s 128-92 loss in Toronto, the Knicks had 11 games left in the season, all of them meaningless, except for their effect on the draft. The three teams with the lowest win totals will each have a 14 percent of landing the No. 1 selection in June, which presumably will be the Duke freshman Zion Williamson.The Knicks, who have the worst record in the league (14-57), are expected to lose their way into one of those slots, even after that uplifting win against the Lakers, which ended when the Knicks’ Mario Hezonja blocked a shot by James in the waning seconds.“We had a lot of ups and downs this season,” Knox said afterward. “It was big-time win, the first sweep of the season. It’s just a great way to win in the Garden, in the last 10 seconds, against one of the best players to ever play the game and we get a defensive stop with the crowd standing up yelling.”At a critical stretch in the fourth quarter, the Knicks had its three rookies on the court — Knox, center Mitchell Robinson, guard Allonzo Trier — plus guard Kadeem Allen, who was just called up from the Westchester developmental team, and forward Lance Thomas, the longest-tenured Knick.“There’s a process that needs to happen, and ours is growth, making sure the young guys are getting the experience they need in order to be good in this league,” Thomas said. “A lot of young guys don’t get to play especially extended minutes in their first year. It’s a learning experience for young guys. Our goal is to fast-track them.”Knox is sixth in the league among rookies in minutes played per game, at 28, despite shooting a subpar 36.4 percent from the field and struggling with weakside defense. He is averaging 12.3 points with 4.3 rebounds.Even so, Fizdale has never considered sending Knox to Westchester to work on his game in the anonymity of the G League “because our team was already like a glorified G League team,” Fizdale told reporters last week. Because his rookies played substantial minutes all season, he said, he thought it was better for them to take their knocks against the best.Such as James on Sunday and Toronto’s Kawhi Leonard on Monday.“Welcome to the league, kid,” Fizdale said. “This is what it’s about. This is why I wanted him in this. Take those lumps now. Later on in his career, no one will remember this stuff when he is the guy beating up on kids. This is all good for him.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — Come Thursday, Dwyane Wade will have no games left.That is the reality, like it or not. After 16 seasons as an NBA player, after three championships, an almost-annual spot in the All-Star Game, a scoring title, three franchises, four children, an Olympic gold medal and 161 teammates, the end is here.On Tuesday, Wade was playing his final regular-season home game when the Miami Heat hosted the Philadelphia 76ers — with Wade in the starting lineup for the first time all season. On Wednesday, it'll be a game at Brooklyn to end the season. The Heat started Tuesday with a slim playoff chance, which ended when Detroit beat Memphis."I gave this game everything I had," Wade said. "And I have appreciated every bit of it."So Tuesday was the farewell in Miami for Wade. It was the 576th and final time he played at AmericanAirlines Arena, all but one of those coming in a Heat uniform."It's been incredible. It's been amazing," Wade said. "A lot of people in that arena have watched me grow, have watched me be imperfect, have watched me make a lot of mistakes in life, as well as watched me blossom and watched me do amazing things, great things. I'm thankful for it."The game didn't tip off until 7:50 p.m. Tributes started in the morning. A Budweiser video showed Wade getting gifts from people — his mother, Jolinda Wade, and others including Andrea Ghersi, the sister of slain teen Joaquin "Guac" Oliver — in a nod to the way he's exchanged jerseys with fellow players all season. Gatorade aired a video starring John Legend , who sang a tribute to Wade's No. 3. Heat President Pat Riley wrote a letter to Wade published in the game program, saying Wade will be loved "forever and for always."Ghersi gave Wade her brother's jersey in the video, which was taped last week. The jersey — No. 3, of course — came with words scrawled in marker: "Please don't forget my brother."There was a pregame series of events inside the arena. Wade addressed the crowd, thanking every teammate — even ones no longer on this season's roster — by name. Wade's children were there. Students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High, where the Feb. 14, 2018, massacre left 17 dead, performed the national anthem. It was fitting that the kids from MSD were there; the tragedy touched Wade deeply and Oliver, one of the victims, was buried in a Wade jersey.The end of the anthem was drowned out by cheers. Wade's face appeared on the video screens. The fans roared."Noooooooo," Wade said. "Y'all are not about to make me cry before this game."His wife Gabrielle Union-Wade, Heat coach Erik Spoelstra, former Heat greats Shaquille O'Neal and LeBron James, Heat teammate Udonis Haslem and Riley narrated a 5-minute pregame video. Hardly anyone was sitting. Even the 76ers stayed on the floor and watched, looking up the whole time. Zaire Wade, his oldest son, introduced his dad in the same way that his father taped his famous "From Robbins, Illinois" commercial nearly 15 years ago."This city will always be proud to rep your name across our backs," Riley said.Former President Barack Obama — like Wade, a proud Chicagoan — sent a taped message as well, playing during the first timeout."I hope that the next phase of your life is just as fulfilling and just as spectacular as this one has been," Obama said.Wade "L3GACY" shirts were given to fans, some of whom spent thousands of dollars for their seats. They got Wade commemorative lanyards. They bought Wade apparel. Some arena workers asked if they could be excused from wearing the usual game-night garb and don Wade jerseys instead. Fans flew in from as far as Australia and China. NBA Commissioner Adam Silver sent his regards in a video.There also was a game, which seemed ancillary. The first shot? A dunk, by Wade. The decision for him to start was made by him and Spoelstra about six hours before gametime. The reason? They wanted that moment, one more time."I don't want this to end," said Spoelstra, who arrived for work Tuesday wearing a shirt with a photo of the scene that followed Wade's game-winning shot against Golden State emblazoned across his chest. "I'm literally having more fun this year and last year than in any of the other years with Dwyane."They are the same in so many ways, Wade and Spoelstra. Both came to the Heat as unsure young men. Both have three championship rings now. Both are likely for the Basketball Hall of Fame. When Spoelstra was promoted to head coach in April 2008, he was unsure if he'd be able to handle the job — until he met with Wade a few months later and got pumped full of confidence."That's what great players do," Spoelstra said. "You talk about Hall of Fame players, they make the other players around them better. Well, great, Hall of Fame, superstar players also make their coaches better. And that's what Dwyane did."Wade is beloved in Miami, of course, for obvious reasons. Beloved in Chicago, too, his hometown. Beloved in Milwaukee, where he took Marquette to a Final Four in 2003.And this farewell tour — the "One Last Dance" — is a league-wide victory lap for someone NBA players rave about."A legend," Toronto's Kyle Lowry said."Still amazing," Dallas' Luka Doncic said."My idol," Washington's Bradley Beal said."A leader," Detroit's Wayne Ellington said."True winner," Phoenix's Devin Booker said.Wade isn't 2008 Wade, or Big 3-era Wade, or NBA Finals MVP Wade anymore. But he's still superb, and with a flair for the dramatic — such as the buzzer-beater to top Golden State a few weeks ago. He's been the best Heat player all season. It's hard to imagine how Miami will replace him, because he is going to be clearly missed.But that's also part of the reason why this season is his last. Wade didn't want to go out as a shell of his former self. He wanted to leave the stage with the fans clamoring for more, and that is precisely what has occurred."That's the sweet part of it, seeing him be able to go off on his own terms, saying when he's done," James said. "Nobody forced him out or did anything of that nature. He's able just to hang it up when he was ready to hang it up and be at peace with it all."___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThere's no LeBron James in these playoffs, so the NBA Finals will have a distinctly new look for the first time in nine years.There's no Tony Parker, for the first time in nearly two decades.There's no Dwyane Wade, and he'll never play a playoff game again.San Antonio is in the postseason for a record-tying 22nd consecutive season. Brooklyn, Denver, Detroit, Orlando and the Los Angeles Clippers got into these playoffs after watching the postseason last year.As always at playoff time, there are some familiar things and some not-so-familiar things. With the postseason set to begin Saturday, here's 10 things to know going into the best time of the NBA year:DRIVE FOR FIVEGolden State is trying to reach the NBA Finals for the fifth consecutive season.If the Warriors get there, they would be the second franchise ever with such a streak — joining only the Boston Celtics, who went there in 10 straight seasons from 1957-66.The Warriors are one of five franchises with a streak of four straight NBA Finals trips: the Los Angeles Lakers did it from 1982-85, the Celtics also did it from 1984-87, the Miami Heat did it from 2011-14 and the Cleveland Cavaliers did it from 2015-18.Golden State is also seeking its seventh championship in franchise history. That would put the Warriors in sole possession of third place on the NBA's most-titles list, behind Boston (17) and the Lakers (16).The Warriors and Chicago are currently tied for third with six championships each.BLOWOUT BUCKSMilwaukee had 45 double-digit wins this season, the most in the NBA.That's a really good omen for the Bucks.Only four teams in NBA history have posted more double-digit wins in a regular season than the Bucks this year. Those clubs are the 1971-72 Los Angeles Lakers (50), the 2016-17 Golden State Warriors (48), the 1970-71 Bucks (47) and the 1995-96 Chicago Bulls (46).All four of those teams went on to win the NBA championship.MR. 3000?Houston's James Harden scored 2,818 points in the regular season, which puts him on the cusp of joining a very elite club.If Harden scores 182 in the playoffs, that will give him a total of 3,000 — and he would be the 10th player in NBA history to score that many in a full season, postseason included. The others: Michael Jordan (10 times), Wilt Chamberlain (five times), Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Rick Barry, Elgin Baylor, Kobe Bryant, Kevin Durant, Bob McAdoo and Shaquille O'Neal.Durant was the last to do it, in 2013-14.LeBron James almost got into the club last year, coming as close as humanly possible — he scored 2,999 points for Cleveland.WELCOME BACKKawhi Leonard's last postseason appearance ended earlier than planned, when he hurt his left ankle while taking a jumper over Golden State's Zaza Pachulia in Game 1 of the 2017 Western Conference finals. Pachulia closed out aggressively, Leonard didn't have space to land safely and he missed the rest of that series.When Leonard left the game, he and San Antonio were up by 23. The Spurs lost that lead, lost the game, lost the series and Leonard never played a postseason second with the Spurs again after that bad landing.Toronto is hoping that Leonard can rekindle his typical postseason magic in his playoff return.Leonard enters these playoffs with a 32-game streak of double-digit postseason outings, averaging 24.1 points in those contests.STEPH RISINGWarriors guard Stephen Curry is on pace to catch Ray Allen and become the NBA's all-time 3-point leader sometime in the 2020-21 season.That stat only takes regular-season games into account. In the postseason, Curry is about to become No. 1.Curry has 378 career postseason 3s, good for No. 2 on the NBA's all-time playoff list. Allen is No. 1, with 385.PLAYOFF CASHThe 16 playoff teams are playing for the Larry O'Brien Trophy, for rings, for a parade ... and for a stake of $21,676,510.That's the amount of this year's NBA Playoff Pool — a record.Every playoff team is assured of some of the pie, which is often used to fund bonuses for players and team staff.So far, all 16 teams are due at least $323,506 each. Most have already clinched much more because finishing in the top six spots in each conference also comes with a bonus. For example, Milwaukee — because it had the best record in the NBA — is already due $1,495,750.Teams get an additional $384,930 for winning a first-round series. Conference finalists get another $638,094. The losing team in the NBA Finals gets another $2,543,681 and the NBA champs get one more payout of $3,838,798.Add it all up, and the Bucks could get $6,355,572 if they win the title. No other team can win that much.HOUSTON, A PROBLEM?Houston is the No. 4 seed in the Western Conference, and faces No. 5 seed Utah in the first round.History suggests the Rockets are in trouble.In each of the last seven seasons, and nine of the last 10, the No. 5 team in the West has beaten the No. 4 team in the first round.Utah has won each of its last five appearances in a 4-versus-5 series. The fifth-seeded Jazz knocked off Oklahoma City in 2018, the Los Angeles Clippers in 2017 and Denver in 2010. The Jazz were seeded No. 4 when they won a 4-versus-5 series in 2007 and 2008 — both of those coming against Houston.BOOGIE'S DEBUTDeMarcus Cousins is No. 1 on a list that nobody wants to lead.By this weekend, he'll be off the list entirely.Cousins has played in 565 regular-season games and zero postseason games. That'll change this weekend when he and Golden State play host to the Los Angeles Clippers in Game 1 of a Western Conference first-round series.No active NBA player has been in more regular-season games without a playoff appearance than Cousins. When he plays for the Warriors this weekend, and when Kyle O'Quinn — currently No. 2 on the list with 443 regular-season games without a postseason minute — plays for Indiana, the new active leader in games played without a postseason appearance will be Brandon Knight.He's played in 421 and is still looking for his first playoff outing.MILESTONE COMINGSometime in the next couple of months, the 4,000th playoff game in NBA history will be played.There have been 3,934 postseason contests so far. Based on the way last season went, the milestone game will come late in the conference-semifinal round or early in the conference-final round.FINALS STARTThis season's NBA Finals start May 30. It'll be the earliest Game 1 of the title series since 1986, when Boston and Houston opened their series on May 26.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Harvey AratonThe crush of bodies surrounding Dwyane Wade as he left an N.B.A. court for the last time as an active player had the effect of a small tidal wave, surging through the jammed Barclays Center tunnel, head-on into a pack of waiting well-wishers.At the rear of the crowd stood Pat Riley, who brought Wade to Miami 16 years ago, nurtured him to stardom, celebrated three championships with him, let him get away in 2016 over a contract dispute and less than two years later welcomed him home with open arms.“Whoa,” Riley said, hands on the shoulders of his wife, Chris, steadying her against the swell of humanity.Now here, finally, came Wade, man of the hour. Wade and Riley, both standing 6 feet 4 inches, made eye contact. Riley raised his right arm forward. Wade reached above the security detail, clasping his hand with the team president’s. The linchpins of the Miami Heat franchise pulled together for a heartfelt embrace.“One more,” Riley told Wade. “I’ve got a max contract for you.”Wade snickered. Riley chortled. It was the self-mocking joke Riley could tell and they both could enjoy after Wade, having gone home again following unfulfilling detours to Chicago and Cleveland, was given the send-off he deserved.After being traded back to Miami by the Cavaliers early last year, Wade talked himself into a last dance for the 2018-19 season, many nights of which he played younger than his well-worn 37 years. Properly feted before Miami’s home schedule closeout on Tuesday night, he scored 30 points in a victory over Philadelphia and topped it off with a playful triple double (25 points, 11 rebounds, 10 assists) as the Heat’s season ended 24 hours later with a 113-94 defeat to the playoff-bound Nets.“I can retire and be happy about my career,” Wade would say, sporting a gold and black jacket in the interview room, on his way out to dance the night away with a guest list that included his N.B.A. “brotherhood” — LeBron James, Carmelo Anthony and Chris Paul.However dapper at 74, with a fine head of combed-back gray hair, Riley was never part of that social scene, just the patriarch who landed Wade with the fifth pick of the 2003 draft, considered at the time to be a consolation prize after James, Darko Milicic, Anthony and Chris Bosh were the first four players chosen.But Wade was more special than anyone imagined during his time at Marquette, a world-class gymnast in basketball footwear, with the uncommon calm of a cocksure gunslinger.When Wade had moved on into the corridor leading to the locker room, I told Riley about a 2005 playoff night in Auburn Hills, Mich., when Wade, as a second-year player, was making life quite difficult for the defending champion, defensively stout Detroit Pistons in the Eastern Conference finals.Taking a halftime stroll, I ran into Chuck Daly, who as the Pistons coach in the late 1980s had devised a defense specifically for Michael Jordan — the famous Jordan Rules.“I’ll tell you what, he’s got some Jordan in him,” Daly said, dragging on a cigarette, when I asked what he thought of the young Wade. “He’s got all the things you can’t teach.”Riley nodded. “Chuck was right,” he said.Wade had other elite qualities besides the balletic ability to score from angles we couldn’t be sure actually existed. He could pass like a point guard when his team needed an assist. He was a solid team defender. He retires as the most productive shot-blocking guard in N.B.A. history, having last month nudged past Jordan.Flashy as he was, Wade had some Tim Duncan in him, too. Until James arrived with Bosh in the summer of 2010, he was unquestionably the franchise star without having to broadcast it to the world, and his door was open to anyone who could give him a better chance to win.Wade embraced Riley’s 2004 acquisition of Shaquille O’Neal when Kobe Bryant wanted no part of the big fella in Los Angeles. He recruited James while fully aware of how the self-proclaimed King was great at basketball, as well as sucking the oxygen out of an organization.When James departed after two titles and four consecutive runs to the finals, Riley called it the most devastating blow of his time in Miami, but Wade insisted there were no hard feelings. It was business. He was still being paid to play basketball, live in Miami. How could life not be good?Yet he wasn’t immune to wounded pride when Riley refused to give him a third contract year in 2016, citing Wade’s balky knees and declining stats. Wade left, reluctantly, one more divorce in a league of ever-transient stars.There’s nothing wrong, nothing at all, with players maximizing free agency, leveraging their way to whichever location suits them at a certain career stage. James of course has been the pied piper of the paradigm. Kevin Durant is reportedly poised to again follow his lead, right out of Golden State.But James’s presence in Brooklyn on Wednesday night, a convenient excuse to avoiding dealing with Magic Johnson’s sudden, stunning disappearance from the Lakers’ front office, was a reminder that the more moves a player makes, the better the odds he might eventually outmaneuver himself.Meanwhile, Dirk Nowitzki, like Wade, was also demonstrating the currency in continuity, finishing a 21-year run Wednesday night with the Dallas Mavericks to widespread acclaim. Manu Ginobili and Duncan were similarly deified for staying the course in San Antonio. Wade will remain the toast of South Florida.In the Miami locker room, a few young Heat players lined up for Wade to sign their jerseys and sneakers. The No. 3 jersey he wore was given to Anthony, a shooter without a squad after parting ways with Paul’s Houston Rockets this season after a mere 10 games.Anthony did manage to scoop up a ball rolling out of bounds in the fourth quarter by the corner front row from where he, Paul and James were cheering on Wade. He took one dribble and, thankfully, resisted the temptation.“I didn’t get a chance to play against Melo this season and exchange jerseys,” said Wade, explaining the gesture. “He was the missing piece.”Throughout his career, wherever he lit up the scoreboard, Anthony seemed to miss the point, unwilling to — as former President Barack Obama said of Wade in a video tribute — “sometimes sacrifice your ego in pursuit of a title.”If Anthony never plays again in the N.B.A., is there a moral to their divergent stories? Only if the most graceful departure possible is a priority, part of the plan. It apparently was for Wade. He left with a self-assured smile and, while indicating he would probably need therapy to deal with the time on his hands, he ruled out a potential return.“I think everybody knows this is for real,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy James WagnerWhen C.C. Sabathia climbs the mound at Yankee Stadium on Saturday, it will mark the first start of his 19th and final season in the major leagues.This year will be the capstone of a long road from his hometown, Vallejo, Calif. — and one that took an unexpected detour just months ago. During an off-season in which he was recovering from a planned operation on his right knee, Sabathia, 38, was suddenly faced with a more serious health scare: a nearly entirely blocked artery near his heart that required surgery to insert a stent.Professional baseball players rarely have to wrestle with their mortality — even with the occasional injury, they are at the top level of their sport because of peak physical performance. So for Sabathia, the final off-season of his career — one that has included 246 wins, 2,986 strikeouts, six All-Star appearances, a Cy Young Award and a World Series ring — was now laden with considerations about the importance of family and taking care of his body.“As a friend, it was a scary moment,” Yankees reliever Dellin Betances said of Sabathia’s heart issue. “I was praying for him throughout that process. Obviously, at that point, you just want him to be good. And thank God, he is.”Betances was with Sabathia when his heart problem first surfaced in early December. Betances, a Brooklyn native, and Sabathia, who lives in Alpine, N.J., with his wife and four children, are off-season throwing partners. One morning, Betances and Sabathia met at the workout facility where they train, Impact Zone in Norwood, N.J. After playing catch, Betances said Sabathia did not look like himself. “He just got tired a lot faster,” Betances said.Betances didn’t think much of it, however, knowing that Sabathia had been busy the previous few weeks. But later in his workout that day, Sabathia also found himself sweating more than usual after riding a stationary bicycle.“I was just trying to get through that workout, and couldn’t get through it,” he said, adding that he had been feeling a bit off for weeks.“I just didn’t feel right,” he said. “I know myself. I try to listen to my body.”So Sabathia called Dr. Paul Lee, the Yankees’ head internist at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, hoping to rule out any heart issues. He underwent a stress test.During his drive home to New Jersey from the hospital, Sabathia received a call: He needed to come back to the hospital. Recounting the visit during a January episode of his podcast R2C2, Sabathia said he was scared upon learning of a 90 percent blockage found in the widowmaker artery, an ominous nickname for the left anterior descending artery, a critical blood vessel leading into the heart.Doctors performed an angioplasty on Dec. 11, inserting a stent into Sabathia’s artery to allow the passage of blood to his heart. Sabathia returned quickly to his normal day-to-day activities at home, which he said helped ease his concerns following a jarring experience.“That was good in the sense of trying to wrap my mind around what just happened with my family,” he said.Sabathia admitted on his podcast that he could not think about baseball in the first few days after the angioplasty. Instead, he thought about Chris Bosh, the Miami Heat star who was forced into early retirement because of repeated blood clots.According to Dr. Pedro Moreno, a cardiologist at Mount Sinai St. Luke’s who was not involved in Sabathia’s treatment, there was little reason for Sabathia to be concerned about pitching after having the stent inserted — a procedure performed on hundreds of thousands of patients in the U.S. every year.“I’ve been performing angioplasties and stents for the past 25 years,” said Dr. Moreno said, “So I can tell you that an athlete that goes through an angioplasty — a single vessel angioplasty, uncomplicated with no heart attack and normal ventricular function — could easily go back to his work as an athlete at the right time with the proper recovery.”Sabathia’s own manager, Aaron Boone, a former infielder, returned from open-heart surgery in 2009 to play the 10 final games of his career with the Houston Astros. Doug Brocail, a former relief pitcher, recovered from two angioplasties to play four more major league seasons. Jeff Green, a basketball player, is on his seventh season since his open-heart surgery.The Yankees have taken precautions with Sabathia. General Manager Brian Cashman said during spring training that Sabathia had received extensive medical tests and hurdles to clear, including follow-up stress tests, in order to return to play.That does not mean Sabathia is free of all heart worries in the future. His family has a history of heart issues: His cousin, Demetrius Davis, died of heart disease in 2012 at 45. Sabathia said doctors told him this winter that history highly increased his own odds of heart trouble. That he had this surgery in his 30s, Dr. Moreno said, raises questions about premature heart disease and other contributing factors such as cholesterol levels, stress and weight.Sabathia weighed more than 300 pounds for most of his career and, even though he had already resolved to lose weight by then, the loss of his cousin opened his eyes. So Sabathia shed nearly 25 pounds off his 6-feet-6-inch frame. But that led to a drop in velocity and two of his worst seasons, in 2013 and 2014, a drop-off Sabathia attributed in part to the fact that he had drastically dropped so much weight.Sabathia eventually returned to 300 pounds with better eating, incorporated a cut fastball into his repertoire as his velocity diminished, and evolved into a serviceable back-of-the-rotation pitcher. He had a 3.65 E.R.A. over 153 innings last season and re-signed for $8 million in November with the Yankees, the only team he wanted to return to.After he is done playing, Sabathia said, he plans to lose more weight. For now, he said doctors told him to keep watching his diet, which changed several years ago anyway, and continue avoiding alcohol. (Sabathia skipped the 2015 playoffs to enter an alcohol rehabilitation clinic.)“They told me whatever I was doing was on the right track,” said Sabathia, who reported to spring training five pounds lighter than his listed weight of 300 from last season. “It’s not much change I need to make.”As he built up from an off-season slowed by two operations, Sabathia said in spring training that he had no concerns about his heart’s ability to handle the strain of pitching. He also said then that he was using blood thinners “for a little while” under doctor’s supervision. He made his final rehabilitation start on Sundayin Tampa for a Yankees’ minor league team, his five-game suspension stemming from an episode in which he threw at a batter last fall out of the way.“I feel good doing everything: playing catch, running, doing all my stuff,” he said during spring training. “So I’m excited.”Even before his heart scare, Sabathia had already decided to retire at the end of this season. He had been thinking about it since last season, he said, because of the condition of his brace-supported right knee and his desire to spend more time with his children. The stent surgery reminded Sabathia about the importance of family and health. He wants to still have a good quality of life beyond this season to enjoy the time with his children — “and my grandkids,” he said.An earlier version of this article misstated the year in which Aaron Boone had open-heart surgery. It was in 2009, not 2003.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byJames and Antetokounmpo will pick from a pool of 24 players for this year’s N.B.A. All-Star Game. To get them started, we did a mock version of the draft. By Benjamin Hoffman and Scott CacciolaLeBron James and Giannis Antetokounmpo will have their work cut out for them when they make their picks as captains in just the second N.B.A. All-Star draft — and the first to be televised. The task is their prize for receiving the most votes in their conferences — James in the West, and Antetokounmpo in the East — during All-Star balloting from fans, media and players.To help them out, we stepped in as captains for a mock draft in our bid to build the perfect teams. We have asked Marc Stein, our venerable N.B.A. reporter and columnist, to weigh in on which of us came away with a winner.The rules are the same as those that will be employed on Thursday:Each team must first select a starting lineup from the eight other starters as selected by the fans, media and players. The 2019 #NBAAllStar Starters!  #LeBronJames #GiannisAntetokounmpo #JoelEmbiid #KyrieIrving #KembaWalker#StephenCurry #JamesHarden #PaulGeorge #KevinDurant#KawhiLeonard pic.twitter.com/ayCxLDckg4The second round will feature the 14 reserves, and the third round will feature the game’s two veteran ambassadors, Dirk Nowitzki of the Dallas Mavericks and Dwyane Wade of the Miami Heat. Team LeBron (Scott Cacciola) will pick first in the first and third rounds, and Team Giannis (Benjamin Hoffman) will pick first among the reserves. Round One — StartersTeam LeBronCacciola: If I’m channeling my Inner LeBron, I’m rewarding Harden for his ridiculous first half of the season by making him the first pick, and I’m going to expect him to take no fewer than 20 stepback 3s from just inside half-court.Team GiannisHoffman: There are arguments to be made for other players, but once you consider Giannis’s skill set, there is no one more complementary than Curry. With the space created by Curry’s outside shooting — he’s actually gotten more bold with long 3-pointers, if you can believe it — the lane will be wide open for the dunks that will get Giannis named the game’s most valuable player.Team LeBronCacciola: Wait a second, Ben: I didn’t know we were treating this like an actual game with actual strategy. That changes everything. Or does it? Putting aside personal rivalries, with my second pick, I’m taking Kevin Durant because he, too, is really good at basketball. I also want to reunite him with Harden, his former teammate, and let them fight over the ball.Team GiannisHoffman: I’m not loving the size disparity so far — Harden is officially only three inches taller than Curry but is also somehow at least two feet taller than Curry — so I’ll take the biggest guy in the starter pool. But based on my stated goal of designing a team to get Giannis the M.V.P. Award, I would be careful about having these two on the floor together all that much unless we start to fall behind.Team LeBronCacciola: I need a defensive stopper. While I acknowledge that a case could be made for Paul George as the league’s top defender this season, is there any question that Leonard will approach this game the same way he does a mid-March clash with the Bucks? The guy does not turn off the intensity — ever. So I’m having him guard all five guys at once, because I already know that no one else will even pretend to play defense.Team GiannisHoffman: There’s a legitimate argument that you have the best four players on the court so far, and despite my belief that my guys are perfect to play with each other, I’m getting a little nervous. The obvious play here would be to counter the Kawhi pick with George, but I want to avoid the LeBron-Kyrie pairing because I’ve seen how dangerous it can be.Team LeBronCacciola: I’m going with more size and more versatility with my final pick among the starters, and I think you’re in trouble, Ben. A quick aside: George has been incredible for the Thunder this season, and he looks like a man playing with an untroubled conscience — and without the distraction of free agency and looming future decisions. If you take a look at this current batch of All-Stars, that makes George something of a rare breed.Team GiannisHoffman: O.K., so I didn’t actually have a choice to make here, but if there’s going to be one guy left in a gym waiting to be picked, it’s pretty good for it to be a guy who had a 60-point game earlier this season and who happens to be playing in his home arena. My team is small and fast so far, but over all there’s a star-power gap that I’m going to have to make up for in the reserves, which I will do from the start by stealing Anthony Davis (before Actual LeBron steals him from the Actual Pelicans).Team LeBron: James Harden, Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Paul GeorgeTeam Giannis: Stephen Curry, Joel Embiid, Kyrie Irving, Kemba WalkerRound Two — ReservesTeam GiannisTeam LeBronTeam GiannisHoffman: It’s almost entirely a function of format, but a guy who will most likely finish second to Harden in M.V.P. voting going with the 11th pick is a little weird! Jokic does a lot of things well. He’s a passing savant, he’s a good rebounder, he shoots better than you probably think and he provides some size without sacrificing the fluid ball movement I’ll have to hope can be built through my starters.Team LeBronTeam GiannisTeam LeBronCacciola: I’m not exactly sure what it means that Westbrook is the 14th overall pick in our mock draft. Maybe it means that the league is so rich with top-tier talent that it’s not even shocking that a former M.V.P. who is (again) averaging a triple-double slipped to the middle of the second round. But here we are.Team GiannisTeam LeBronTeam GiannisTeam LeBronTeam GiannisTeam LeBronTeam GiannisTeam LeBronRound Three — AmbassadorsTeam LeBronCacciola: This is the most obvious pick in the entire draft this side of Anthony Davis. Wade and James go way back, well before the Banana Boat days, and Wade has already made it abundantly clear that James better pick him. With retirement around the bend for Wade, the game will be full of nostalgia — not only for Wade, but for the partnership he formed with James (and Chris Bosh) in Miami when superstar conglomerates were still a novel concept.Team GiannisHoffman: One of the greatest scorers in N.B.A. history, Dirk can’t really move around much, and other than getting in the game to launch a jumper or two he’s not a lot of added value on the court. But off the court he’s still one of the funniest players in the league. Taking a look at Team LeBron, my bench may need some moments of levity in what could turn into an ugly game.Can I mock your picks instead of treating this like an actual game with something as mainstream as a prediction? We are looking for free agency clues in Thursday’s draft — not basketball decisions. I suppose I will go with Team LeBron/Cacciola over Team Giannis/Hoffman if I’m forced to choose, but what we really want to know is: Will LeBron draft Irving? And/or Davis? He always has a down-the-road plan in mind.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byAt WarBy Christopher Paul Wolfe“Sir, I never thought I’d see the day I’d be working for a colored officer.” These were not words I expected to hear, in 2003, from a senior enlisted soldier. It was winter in Iraq’s Anbar Province, and we were standing in the bay of an abandoned train station, where our unit now lived. As the maintenance officer, I oversaw the bay, where we labored to keep a fleet of vehicles in shape for missions on Iraqi streets. Worn track pads and tires surrounded us. Grease-covered soldiers worked on heaps of metal left inoperable by combat.The sergeant was white, and probably in his late 30s, with a tan face darkened by red sandstorms. He possessed a level of discipline and diligence that was forged in years of service. We had served alongside each other for close to two years. We had trained together, deployed together and, over our unit’s wounded and killed soldiers, mourned together. He helped me to mature as an officer, recognizing that I was young and was experiencing combat for the first time. Facing common hardship, we bonded.I was 26 at the time, a newly promoted captain who’d gotten used to tough questions and observations from soldiers of all ranks. But when this sergeant rose from his chair, walked in my direction and said those words to me, I had no response. We had never had a conversation that would make me suspect he would express such a sentiment. And since I was not prepared to address its implications and assumptions, I simply walked away from the interaction, carrying with me a new, jarring data point in a lifelong reckoning with racism and the history it papers over, both in the service and the United States at large.[Get a weekly roundup of Times coverage of war delivered to your inbox. Sign up here.]I’d been aware of the physical and emotional weight of racism before I ever encountered it firsthand. Both of my parents were raised in a South much different from mine in Fayetteville, N.C. — a pre-civil rights South that I glimpsed at family reunions in Arkansas, after libations loosened the elders’ lips. My father, a retired Army officer, often recalls being dismissed early from school to till a cotton field, while white children stayed behind and furthered their education. When he was a teenager, a group of white men surrounded him as he walked home from work. One man distracted him while another punched him in the face. My mother, a retired educator who grew up about four hours away from my father, has always been more tight-lipped about her upbringing — but whatever she experienced informed my childhood foreboding, my understanding that Fayetteville’s active Ku Klux Klan presence was an imminent risk to me whenever I left the house.My parents’ life stories served as a poignant warning about America’s racism toward its black citizens. It was a warning that came before the Fayetteville police pulled me, shirtless, at 16, from my car in the pouring rain. I was handcuffed and detained on suspicion that my girlfriend and I were using crack cocaine, when in fact we were only rounding third base. It was before a West Point classmate said that I should be spending the night in the “5th Regiment” — a nonexistent unit meant to refer to black cadets and, in this case, to imply that I had no place in the Academy’s four student regiments. Before a white woman I dated told me her family wouldn’t accept a black baby. Before this sergeant and I stood face to face in Iraq.As grating as his comment was, he had voiced what surely was a common experience for many white soldiers. I was one of only 67 blacks to graduate with my West Point class of 965 cadets; one of no more than three black officers in my first battalion in Korea; and again one of the few black officers in my unit when it deployed to Iraq. Wherever I went, I couldn’t help noticing the Army’s significant deficit of black officers. The sergeant didn’t seem hostile or demeaning. If anything, his voice seemed to waver, as if he were in that moment beginning to realize how racism not only negatively affects people of color but white people as well — how it causes them to buy into false narratives that legitimate institutions have perpetuated to advance white supremacy since our country’s founding.In 1925, the Army War College summarized a study of black soldiers in a memo titled “Employment of Negro Man Power in War.” “In the process of evolution the American Negro has not progressed as far as the other sub-species of the human family,” the document states. “As a race he has not developed leadership qualities. His mental inferiority and the inherent weaknesses of his character are factors that must be considered with great care in the preparation of any plan for his employment in war.” Among its conclusions was this: “Negro officers should not be placed over white officers, noncommissioned officers or soldiers.”The military that produced this document is the same military in which many black Americans have served and died — an Army that has now had its first black commander in chief and that just hired West Point’s first black superintendent since its founding in 1802. But that memo also distills our country’s conventional wisdom, which has variously justified slavery, Jim Crow, segregation, redlining and the mass incarceration of black Americans.As a black veteran, I find it hard to reconcile my pride in my service with a sense of complicity in upholding my country’s legacy of white supremacy while deployed. I still remember the black and brown faces of Iraqis that I helped to round up, zip-tie and detain using tactics similar to stop and frisk, the use of which some courts in America have found to be unconstitutional. These experiences created a moral chasm with which I continue to grapple.I’m now a 41-year-old civilian, father and husband. After completing my time in the service, I went to business school, worked on Wall Street and attended the creative-writing program at Columbia University. In each of these institutions, some form of racism persisted. I recall working on an investment banking deal team and hearing a client’s senior executive suggest that LeBron James spent the windfall from his Miami Heat contract on 20-inch rims. And I remember sitting in Ivy League classrooms where the only other dark face in front of me was my reflection in a wall-mounted flat screen.Over the years, I’ve focused on these contradictions — and on seeking deeper, truer historical context when it comes to America’s racism. I’ve attended workshops where white people and people of color work together to develop a common language to understand the effects of the institutionalized white control of power, wealth and opportunity — both historically and in the present day.This journey has opened my eyes to the possibility that this sergeant was the first white person who ever tried to have an open and honest conversation about racism with me.Last year, I accepted an invitation from a fellow black West Point alumnus to attend the academy’s annual Henry O. Flipper dinner, honoring the institution’s first black graduate and the Army’s first African-American commissioned officer. February snow covered the Hudson Valley, and a cold wind cut across the river. On my way into the mess hall, I ended up walking next to a black captain who had been injured in Iraq. I followed him inside and found myself sitting just a few feet away from then-cadet (now lieutenant) Simone Askew, the first black female student leader of West Point’s 4,400-strong cadet corps, who was seated at the next table. On my plate was the evening’s program with a photograph of Flipper, class of 1877.After the dinner, I ducked into the library and took a look around. I went up a level and saw cadets studying. Up another level, I found the rings of my fallen classmates. On the library’s top floor, I stumbled upon a bronze bust of Henry Ossian Flipper in his full-dress uniform. Born into slavery in 1856, Flipper defied racial prejudice and institutional power to survive West Point. He was also a notable public servant after his time in the service — which was cut short by a racially motivated court-martial. During my time at the Academy, I’d been too preoccupied with my own challenges to grasp the magnitude of Flipper’s accomplishment.No grand epiphanies stretched across the years as I stared into the contours of his statue. I was as humbled by his work as I was conflicted about my own. Flipper paved my path at West Point, a path that many officers of color still follow — in and for a nation that still seems determined to normalize the ideology of white supremacy and to write off our achievements as statistical anomalies.Christopher Paul Wolfe is a West Point graduate and an Iraq war veteran. He holds an M.B.A. from Duke University and an M.F.A. from Columbia University. His work has appeared in Guernica, BOMB Magazine and two anthologies. He teaches creative writing at Rikers Island through Columbia University’s Justice-in-Education Initiative. Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of At War delivered to your inbox every week. For more coverage of conflict, visit nytimes.com/atwar.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byPor Marina FrancoBuen día, bienvenido al boletín diario de The New York Times en Español. Si aún no estás suscrito, puedes darte de alta en este enlace.¿Tienes sugerencias? ¿Quieres hacernos llegar tu opinión? Escríbenos a esta dirección.• Detienen a Julian Assange en la embajada de Ecuador en Londres. Tras casi siete años de asilo, la policía londinense arrestó hoy [en inglés] al fundador de WikiLeaks, Julian Assange, por no haberse presentado ante un tribunal en 2012, después de que Ecuador le revocara el asilo. Assange no salía de la embajada del país desde agosto de 2012 por temor a que si abandonaba terreno diplomático ecuatoriano, podía ser detenido y extraditado a Estados Unidos por la publicación de miles de cables militares y diplomáticos clasificados a través de WikiLeaks.Lenín Moreno, presidente de Ecuador, dijo en un comunicado en video publicado en su cuenta de Twitter que su gobierno tomó la decisión soberana de retirar el asilo diplomático a Assange por haber violado “reiteradamente convenciones internacionales y el protocolo de convivencia”. Los agentes de policía fueron invitados a entrar al edificio por el embajador ecuatoriano después de que su gobierno retirara el asilo a Assange, dijeron las autoridades.• Llevan a prisión al expresidente peruano Pedro Pablo Kuczynski. Un tribunal en Lima ordenó diez días de detención preliminar para el hombre que, hasta hace poco más de un año, fue el mandatario del país. El arresto responde a la investigación por corrupción relacionada con los tratos con la constructora brasileña Odebrecht; Kuczynski calificó como excesiva la orden de prisión y su abogado dijo que apelarán.Cinco expresidentes de Perú enfrentan procesos judiciales: Ollanta Humala estuvo en prisión preventiva; Alberto Fujimori tiene una condena por crímenes contra la humanidad; Alejandro Toledo está acusado de recibir sobornos, y Alan García está siendo investigado por colusión al igual que por lavado de activos.• Nicaragua se queda sin una de las principales voces opositoras. El obispo Silvio José Báez ha sido durante el último año una de las voces más críticas hacia el gobierno de Daniel Ortega y Rosario Murillo por la represión de las manifestaciones. Laura Dogu, exembajadora estadounidense en Nicaragua, declaró a inicios de este mes que esa actitud le habría ganado enemigos al eclesiástico a tal punto que, como ella misma, era blanco de un posible atentado.Ayer, Báez anunció que el papa Francisco pidió transferirlo por un tiempo indefinido al Vaticano, lo que algunos (como el exvicepresidente y escritor Sergio Ramírez) calificaron de exilio forzado.• Piden que la ONU reconozca a Juan Guaidó como líder de Venezuela. En una sesión del Consejo de Seguridad de las Naciones Unidas para discutir la situación venezolana —signada por el colapso económico en medio de una disputa entre el opositor Guaidó y Nicolás Maduro sobre quién es el presidente legítimo—, la representación estadounidense en el organismo reveló una propuesta para que la ONU reconozca a Guaidó como el líder de Venezuela. Mike Pence, el vicepresidente de Estados Unidos, le dijo al embajador chavista en la reunión: “No deberías estar aquí. Deberías regresar a Venezuela y decirle a Maduro que se vaya”. Más de cincuenta naciones han reconocido a Guaidó como presidente encargado.Ayer volvieron a presentarse, en diversas regiones de Venezuela, los apagones intermitentes que empezaron hace un mes. La interrupción del suministro eléctrico ha dejado sin servicio a hospitales, negocios y sectores industriales.“Ni el macrismo ni el kirchnerismo pueden desbloquear la situación. Más allá de la adhesión apasionada de un sector minoritario, ambos despiertan un potente rechazo del resto de la sociedad. En este contexto, solo un actor extragrieta puede ofrecer una salida. ¿Podrá ser Lavagna?”.El periodista y politólogo José Natanson habla sobre la polarización en Argentina para analizar de qué manera la candidatura presidencial del economista y exministro Roberto Lavagna podría destrabar la situación “trágicamente congelada” de las dos principales fuerzas políticas del país.Ya no es ciencia ficción. Un grupo multinacional de astrónomos logró lo que alguna vez fue impensable y ayer presentó la evidencia: la primera imagen de un agujero negro. Captaron el llamado horizonte de eventos u horizonte de sucesos: el último punto donde se ven los objetos antes de caer en los agujeros, fenómenos interestelares caracterizados por una poderosa fuerza gravitacional de la que no escapa ni la luz, pese a su velocidad. Los científicos mexicanos que fueron parte del hito del Telescopio del Horizonte de Eventos nos cuentan cómo lo vivieron.• Netanyahu triunfa en Israel y se prepara para un histórico quinto mandato. El primer ministro Benjamín Netanyahu sobrevivió ayer a un fuerte reto electoral [en inglés]; el conteo de votos en la elección parlamentaria del martes indica que su coalición obtendrá una mayoría con la cual se convertiría en el líder israelí con más tiempo consecutivo en el cargo. Netanyahu, quien está siendo investigado por corrupción, logró a última hora el respaldo de sectores nacionalistas con su promesa de anexar el territorio palestino de Cisjordania.• Una oleada de despidos en los hoteles de Trump que empleaban a personas indocumentadas. Después de las revelaciones de que varias empresas del presidente estadounidense —quien se caracteriza por despotricar contra los migrantes— tenían en su nómina a personas indocumentadas, los hoteles que llevan su nombre en Florida han iniciado los despidos de muchos empleados. “Sabían que los inmigrantes que trabajaban ahí estaban en el país ilegalmente”, afirmó un joven guatemalteco que trabajaba en el National Golf Club en Jupiter. “El conocimiento que tengo, el trabajo que hago, no se puede remplazar fácilmente. Ningún estadounidense quiere hacerlo”.• El límite para la restauración de los ecosistemas. Durante milenios diversos ambientes han podido recuperar su biodiversidad y procesos naturales después de incendios, inundaciones o sequías, pero un estudio sobre la Gran Barrera de Coral en Australia demuestra que hasta los ecosistemas más grandes tienen un límite respecto a qué tanto pueden soportar los azotes de fenómenos del cambio climático. Ese arrecife ha tenido un declive marcado en la cantidad de corales nuevos tras repetidos episodios de blanqueamiento o muerte de los animales marinos por el aumento de las temperaturas océanicas.• Evidencia de la voracidad del comercio ilegal de especies animales. Ya existen varias medidas para prevenir el tráfico de especies como los pangolines u osos hormigueros escamados, entre ellas conseguir las huellas de los traficantes cuando un cargamento es interceptado a fin de rastrearlos. Sin embargo, parece que no es suficiente: hace unos días en Singapur se hizo la incautación más grande de la historia de escamas de pangolines; los conservacionistas creen que murieron 36.000 de los mamíferos amenazados.• Messi y la nueva manera de ver deportes. ¿Ya viste este gol de Leo Messi? ¿Qué tal este otro? Aunque ayer el futbolista argentino no mandó el balón al fondo de la red (el Barcelona le ganó 1-0 al Manchester United en los cuartos de final de la Liga de Campeones), los videos que muestran la destreza del futbolista argentino suelen volverse virales. Nuestro apetito por ellos es señal de cómo está cambiando nuestro consumo de muchos deportes, con grabaciones que se propagan en segundos por las redes sociales y se vuelven memes casi con la misma rapidez (varias ligas profesionales hasta tienen cuentas dedicadas a hacer gifs).En esa línea, así quedaron los demás partidos de la semana en la Liga de Campeones:• La NBA se queda sin Magic, D-Wade y el Dunking Deutschman. Fue una semana difícil para los seguidores de los Lakers de Los Ángeles [en inglés], que se quedaron fuera de la postemporada pese a la contratación del astro LeBron James y también sin presidente del equipo, pues el exjugador Magic Johnson anunció su salida de la directiva. Los seguidores del Miami Heat y de los Dallas Mavericks también viven momentos de tristeza: el martes las estrellas de ambos equipos, Dwayne Wade y el alemán Dirk Nowitzki, respectivamente, jugaron su último partido antes del retiro (cada uno encestó treinta puntos como despedida).Hubo reacciones encontradas esta semana por el texto de opinión de Carmelo Mesa-Lago sobre por qué Cuba debe repensar su modelo económico socialista y adoptar uno mixto, afín al de Vietnam o China.“Con un embargo económico cualquier modelo se convierte en fallido”, destacó Javier Blázquez, un comentario que fue repetido por varios lectores en Facebook. La economía de Cuba “es como en la película policiaca en la que le piden a alguien que hable y a la vez le aprietan el cuello”, comentó Andy Normandia. Para otros, sin embargo, la responsabilidad de los problemas en la isla sí recae en su modelo. “El peor bloqueo que tiene Cuba es el comunismo porque les impide desarrollarse”, afirmó Orlando Torres.Corrección, 12 de abril de 2019Una edición anterior de este boletín señalamos que el expresidente peruano Ollanta Humala estaba en prisión preventiva, pero fue liberado en 2018.Gracias por leernos. Mañana no te pierdas nuestras recomendaciones para el fin de semana y una selección de artículos sobre salud e historias de amor.También puedes compartir este boletín con tus amigos, familiares, seres queridos y no tan queridos. Se pueden registrar en este enlace.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressThe Nets were all business on Sunday. They started fast. They closed hard. And they refused to let anything, even a frequent nemesis, block their playoff path.Instead, the Nets beat Indiana at its own physical game and earned their first playoff berth in four years with a 108-96 victory on the road — though the muted locker room celebration made it hard to tell if players were more relieved or excited that the drought was over.“It means a lot, obviously to exceed expectations for a lot of us in here, to see how far we’ve come,” Joe Harris said after scoring 18 of his 19 points in the decisive first half. “It means a ton. Hopefully, it’s a sign of things to come for this organization.”After starting the season 8-18, the Nets (41-40) fought back to clinch their first nonlosing record in four years and can make it a winning season by beating Miami in Wednesday’s regular-season finale. They have the same record as Orlando; the Nets will finish sixth and the Magic seventh with a win or an Orlando loss. The Nets will be no worse than seventh.“There was another level of focus, another level of being locked in,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “They wanted it so bad, there was an extra energy there in these past few games.”The Nets, who got 20 points from D’Angelo Russell and 18 from Caris LeVert, ended a nine-game losing streak against the Pacers and a seven-game losing streak in Indianapolis that dated to March 2015.Domantas Sabonis had 17 points and 12 rebounds for Indiana, which has lost two straight at home and five of seven over all, locking the Pacers into the No. 5 seed in the East.“They were playing for something and they went out and showed it,” the Pacers’ Myles Turner said of the Nets.KNICKS 113, WIZARDS 110 Mario Hezonja scored a career-high 30 points and made the go-ahead 3-pointer with 44 seconds left, and the Knicks beat Washington at Madison Square Garden for the first time in nine games over six years.Luke Kornet added 17 points and Kevin Knox had 16 for the Knicks (16-64), who would have tied the franchise record for losses had they not rallied from a 10-point deficit after three quarters.“There’s no quitters in this locker room, in this organization, and we’re just showing we have a great chemistry going around and it resulted in a win,” Hezonja said. “So we’re not paying attention to standings or whatever it is. We just treat it as a development year and hopefully it results in something big next year.”The Knicks have to win their last two games to avoid at least matching their 17-65 record under Derek Fisher in 2014-15.HORNETS 104, PISTONS 91 Kemba Walker scored 20 of his 31 points in the first half to help Charlotte win at Detroit.The Hornets won their third in a row to keep their East playoff hopes alive. Charlotte and Miami are tied for ninth, a game behind Detroit. All three teams have two games left.RAPTORS 117, HEAT 109 Pascal Siakam had 23 points and 10 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard scored 22 points, and host Toronto won in overtime, further denting Miami’s fading playoff hopes.MAGIC 116, CELTICS 108 Terrence Ross had 26 points, Nikola Vucevic added 25 points and 12 rebounds, and Orlando rallied at Boston to clinch its first playoff berth in seven years.WARRIORS 131, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 27 points as Golden State clinched the Western Conference’s top seed, beating Los Angeles in the Warriors’ final regular-season game at Oracle Arena.3-POINTER RECORD James Harden scored 30 points in just three quarters as the Houston Rockets broke their N.B.A. record by making 27 3-pointers in a 149-113 home win against Phoenix. Eric Gordon led the way with eight 3-pointers, and Harden had five.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy Marc SteinKristaps Porzingis of the Dallas Mavericks is under investigation by the New York Police Department after a recent accusation that he sexually assaulted a woman last season while he was playing for the Knicks, according to two people familiar with the case who were not authorized to discuss it publicly.Porzingis, who had not been charged as of Saturday night, denied the allegation through a statement from his lawyer Roland G. Riopelle.“We are aware of the complaint that was made against Mr. Porzingis on Friday and unequivocally deny the allegation,” Riopelle said. “We made a formal referral to federal law enforcement on December 20, 2018, based on the accuser’s extortionate demands.“We also alerted the National Basketball Association months ago, and they are aware of the ongoing investigation of the accuser by federal law enforcement. We cannot comment further on an ongoing federal investigation.”The N.B.A. spokesman Mike Bass said in a statement that the league was “aware of the situation,” but he did not elaborate.An N.Y.P.D. spokesman would not confirm or address any complaints against a specific individual, saying, “The N.Y.P.D. takes sexual assault and all rape cases extremely seriously, and urges anyone who has been a victim to file a report so we can perform a comprehensive investigation, and offer support and services to survivors.”Mavericks officials declined to comment, and a spokesman for the Knicks said, “This is Kristaps’s personal matter and not related to the Knicks.”The New York Post first reported Saturday that the woman told the police of the suspected attack from Feb. 7, 2018, on Thursday. Porzingis sustained a torn anterior crucial ligament in his left knee while playing for the Knicks on Feb. 6, 2018. The woman, according to the report, said Porzingis assaulted her hours later at the Sky building in Midtown Manhattan where each had a residence.The woman waited more than a year to come forward, according to The Post, because she had discussed receiving a payment of $68,000 from Porzingis. The Post also reported that the woman is in her 20s and that the N.Y.P.D.’s Special Victims Division has taken over the case.The Mavericks acquired the 7-foot-3 Porzingis from the Knicks in a seven-player trade on Jan. 31, but Porzingis has not played this season for either team while recovering from the knee injury. On the call with the league office to complete the blockbuster deal, Dallas was apprised by the Knicks of a potential “extortion issue” with Porzingis, according to one person familiar with the details of the call who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Porzingis will become a restricted free agent in July and is eligible for a five-year maximum contract worth an estimated $160 million from the Mavericks. Team officials have said repeatedly since acquiring Porzingis that they hope to sign him as quickly as possible.LAKERS SHUT DOWN JAMES LeBron James’s disappointing first season as a Los Angeles Laker ended abruptly when the team announced that it would hold him out of its final six games as a health precaution.“After consulting with our team doctors and medical staff, we have decided to hold LeBron out of games for the remainder of the season,” the Lakers said in a statement distributed on Saturday afternoon.“This decision will allow his groin to fully heal, and is best for the future success of both LeBron and the Lakers.”James thus ends his debut season as a Laker with just 55 of a possible 82 games played. He averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists and moved into fourth in career scoring — ahead of Michael Jordan — with 32,543 points.NETS 110, CELTICS 96 D’Angelo Russell scored 20 of his 29 points in another blistering third quarter against Boston, leading the Nets to a victory over short-handed Boston at Barclays Center.Back from a seven-game trip that lasted more than two weeks, the Nets had a happy homecoming largely because of Russell, who added 10 assists and finished with 25 points after halftime.It was the third straight time he hurt the Celtics in the third quarter, and the Nets really needed this one after going 2-5 on the road and dropping into seventh place in the Eastern Conference. They are a half-game behind Detroit and lead eighth-place Miami by a half-game and Orlando by one.“I told you, man, every one is going to be worth it,” Russell said. “We need it, scratching and clawing for every one of them.”Caris LeVert added 15 points for the Nets, who had dropped the final two games of the trip and still face a tough stretch now that they are back home.“We know that all these games coming up are playoff games,” Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “It’s just how we have to look at it. We’re in it. We can’t shy away from it.” (AP)HEAT 100, KNICKS 92 Dion Waiters scored 28 points and Dwyane Wade added 16 in his last game at Madison Square Garden as Miami beat the Knicks.Wade had back-to-back baskets in Miami’s 8-0 run to start the fourth quarter after the game was tied through three. He shot 6 for 16 and added seven rebounds in 27 minutes off the bench.Wade received a nice hand from the crowd when he walked to the scorer’s table for the first time midway through the first quarter. He then received an ovation when he checked into the game with 4 minutes 37 seconds left in the period.The Knicks honored Wade’s 15-year career with a video tribute with 2:47 remaining in the opening period after a Miami timeout. Wade then drove to the basket for his first points of the night.Wade, a 13-time All-Star, bid farewell to the Garden by planting a kiss on the Knicks logo at center court.“You love playing here,” Wade said, adding: “When I played in college, I got the opportunity to play here, the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic. It was just immediately, that feel, and the feel was there.”Emmanuel Mudiay scored 24 points for the Knicks, who have lost six straight and 14 of 15 over all, and eight in a row at home. (AP)HARDEN SCORES 50 James Harden had 50 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists, scoring 10 straight Houston points down the stretch to help the host Rockets beat Sacramento, 119-108.Harden had his 42nd career triple-double and his third 50-point game in the last six. He made seven 3-pointers to become the ninth player in N.B.A. history to reach 2,000 career baskets from beyond the arc.(AP)A 3-POINTER RECORD, AGAIN The N.B.A. set a record for 3-pointers made for the seventh straight year, after the 25,808th of the season was made Saturday night. The league is on pace for about an 8 percent rise in 3-pointers over last season — and 3s are being made 57 percent more often than they were five years ago. (AP)Ali Watkins, Kelly Whiteside and Zolan Kanno-Youngs contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Jeremy EngleSports is not just about X’s and O’s or wins and losses; it’s also about ethics and economics, race and gender, science and technology, joy and camaraderie, and nearly everything in between. Sports allows us to admire the awesomeness of the human body and the artistry of athletes in action, and to explore stories of grit and resilience and our need for heroes and villains.While it might not be immediately obvious to all teachers, particularly those who aren’t die-hard fans, sports is also an endless source of inspiration for making arguments and throwing down facts.In this lesson, we explore how to use the world of sports to help students effectively develop evidence-based arguments. We suggest three categories for practicing the skill in sports contexts — from making a case for the G.O.A.T. to taking on current sports-world controversies to proposing rule changes to make a sport or tournament better. We end the lesson with a few strategies for bringing debate and argument writing alive in the classroom.Do you teach with sports reporting? We’d love to hear your ideas. Post a comment or write to LNFeedback@nytimes.com._________Who is the G.O.A.T.?No, not those cute animals with the horns and the beard. The Greatest of All Time.No matter how seemingly impossible it is to determine the G.O.A.T., it is a perennial favorite argument for sports fans and is debated regularly in The New York Times.The G.O.A.T. argument comes in many forms: Best Game, Best Season, Best Coach, Best Team, Greatest Upset, Greatest Olympian. Even best and worst sports cities.But how do you decide: Is it the accomplishments on the playing field or is it a player’s greater impact beyond his or her sport? How do you compare one era to another?Is Tom Brady the greatest football player of all time? Who would you pick, Michael Jordan or LeBron James? Is Serena Williams the greatest athlete of all time? Or is it Muhammad Ali?Jesse Owens won four gold medals in the Munich Olympics in 1936, broke or equaled nine Olympic records, also set three world records and single-handedly shattered Adolf Hitler’s myth of Aryan superiority; yet his record mark of 10.3 seconds in the 100 meters would today be 21 feet behind Usain Bolt’s record of 9.58. Would it be more fair to incorporate broader cultural accomplishments? Or should the Greatest of All Time focus solely on the numbers?Student Challenge: Make your case for the G.O.A.T.First, ask your students to decide which aspect of the G.O.A.T. debate they would like to tackle: greatest play, season, game, coach, athlete, et cetera.Next, they should define their criteria for greatness: Does greatest mean the player you want to be up at bat in the seventh game of the World Series, two outs in the bottom of the ninth? Is it instead the number of an athlete’s victories? His or her longevity? The relative strength of the competition? The athlete’s impact within, as well as beyond, the sport?Advance Evidence-Based Arguments and Tackle Counterarguments Use a model text or two to help students move from mere assertion or opinion to rigorous, evidence-based argument. Here are a few excerpts to highlight how authors both support claims with evidence and anticipate counterarguments:In “Is Russell Westbrook’s Season the Best Ever? Some Apples and Oranges to Pick From,” Jeré Longman supports his claims with evidence using sports statistics:Westbrook’s season, while awesome, is not the greatest in N.B.A. history. That belongs to none other than Wilt Chamberlain in 1961-62 with the Philadelphia Warriors. Chamberlain averaged 50.4 points and 25.7 rebounds that season and (this may be the greatest stat in all of sports) 48.5 minutes played per game. Regulation games last 48 minutes, but the Warriors played seven games that extended for at least one period of overtime. During that 80-game regular season, Chamberlain played 3,882 of Philadelphia’s possible 3,890 minutes.On March 2, 1962, Chamberlain famously scored 100 points against the Knicks, but that was only the culmination of a four-game stretch in which he scored 67, 65 and 61 points in the three previous games, according to basketball-reference.com. All told, he scored at least 60 points 15 times that season, including a stunning performance on Dec. 8, 1961, against the Lakers, in which Chamberlain delivered 78 points and 43 rebounds.In “It’s Time to Appreciate Serena Williams’s Greatness,” Christopher Clarey anticipates counterarguments:In light of that and Williams’s enduring excellence, there is momentum building behind the concept of deeming her the greatest player ever. It is a subjective process, one in which it is always tempting to give too much weight to the great champion in front of you, the one whose victory under pressure is freshest in your mind.What is beyond dispute is that Williams has not been nearly as consistent in regular tour events during her career as players like Navratilova, Chris Evert and Graf.Navratilova won 167 singles titles as well as 177 doubles titles in an era when doubles was much more prestigious than now. Evert won 154 singles titles. Graf, who did not play as long as Williams has played, won 107. Williams, for the moment, has 67, which puts her in a tie for sixth on the career list with Billie Jean King. …But if “greatest” means the player who would have beaten all the rest at their peaks, it is hard not to feel a strong pull in Williams’s direction. Her power serving and her serving under pressure are weapons that no other great player has possessed to the same degree. Modern equipment is certainly a factor, but she is also complete off the ground and, guided by her coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, improving her volleys, overheads and tactical variations.Together, the class might analyze how these authors develop their case for G.O.A.T., for example, by defining their terms for greatness, providing evidence to support claims and anticipating and then considering potential counterclaims.Here are additional resources, from The Times, and elsewhere, that can provide alternative mentor texts:The Fine Line: What Makes Simone Biles the World’s Best Gymnast Eliud Kipchoge Is the Greatest Marathoner, Ever On Team of All-Time Greats, Pelé Shines Brightest Golden State Warriors Are Closing In on History Lindsey Vonn to Retire: Vonn Leaves as the Greatest Women’s Skier in History G.O.A.T. Athletes: The Definitive List | Complex.com Babe Didrikson, the Greatest Female Athlete of All Time? | The Guardian Major League Baseball: The Case for Babe Ruth as the Best Ever | Bleacher Report Tom Brady Has Surpassed Joe Montana as the G.O.A.T. | ESPN’s First Take (Video) LeBron James Has Already Passed Michael Jordan as Greatest Player | Fox Sports - Undisputed (Video)Ultimately, there is no right answer to the G.O.A.T. question. To some, Jesse Owens will always be the G.O.A.T. for his cultural impact; for others, Bill Russell’s 11 N.B.A. championships will trump all other measures. But that is the beauty of the debate. And in the end, it’s about the power of the argument to persuade others — at least for that day — who is the Greatest of All Time._________Should athletes who use steroids be barred from professional sports? Should players have the right to kneel during the national anthem? Should college athletes be paid?These are just a few of the countless debates that come and go in the world of sports. Any one of them is ripe for students to investigate and debate to practice their inquiry and argument skills.In this section we present three sports-related case studies to demonstrate how students can develop good research questions, assert a strong claim and study mentor texts as a way to improve their debate writing and speaking skills. And these three topics are just the tip of the iceberg; at the end of the section, we suggest another 11 current issues in sports for students to explore. And we’re confident your students would have plenty more topics to add to our list.Case Study #1. Sports and ConcussionsSports are often associated with heroism — endurance, toughness, and valor. It has long been assumed that an athlete will have to make physical sacrifices to achieve greatness. But the sacrifice is now being questioned because of changes in our understanding of the impact sports can have on our bodies and minds.The brain trauma sustained in football and other contact sports is now linked to long-term cognitive impairment, including memory loss, confusion, depression and dementia. Although media coverage of concussions has focused on tackle football, these health issues are evident in many other sports like hockey, soccer, basketball, Nascar, skiing, snowboarding and BMX freestyle, among others.The debate is not merely academic; it is causing significant changes to our understanding of athletes and athletics and is threatening the future viability of some of the world’s most popular sports.Develop Winning QuestionsResearch generally begins with asking good questions. Even a topic as seemingly straight forward as sports-related concussions has many layers of complexity. So students should begin their research by asking themselves: What about this topic interests me most? What do I want to learn more about?For example, if they want to start with the science, they might generate questions like: What is the impact of a single concussion? What is the long-term impact of brain trauma? What is the degenerative brain disease C.T.E.? And what is the impact of concussions on youths?Or they may instead decide to investigate the role equipment plays, look into possible reforms or consider ethical implications. If they decide to go in any of these directions, they might come up with questions like: How do concussions affect athletes’ short- and long-term physical and mental health? How does this affect the people around them? What is the role of equipment in brain trauma? Can equipment reduce concussions or does it give players a false sense of security, therefore making the problem worse? Should parents let their children play football? Or are we obsessing about the dangers? Should we as fans still watch football?No matter what question or questions students start with, research inevitably leads to asking more questions.Some other relevant resources: 110 N.F.L. Brains. All But One Had C.T.E. A Football Player’s Descent Into Pain and Paranoia Anatomy of a Traditional Football Helmet Concussions Can Occur in All Youth SportsCanadian Football’s Big Steps to Reduce Hits, a Contrast to the N.F.L.Case Study #2. National Anthem ProtestsPolitical activism and protests by athletes are nothing new. Muhammad Ali publicly criticized the Vietnam War. John Carlos and Tommie Smith raised fists during a medal ceremony at the 1968 Olympics. Following the fatal shooting of Trayvon Martin, LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and the other members of the Miami Heat posted a photo of themselves wearing hooded sweatshirts in his memory. But perhaps no act of political protest today is more polarizing than the stance by Colin Kaepernick to kneel during the national anthem at N.F.L. games.If students want to argue a position related to recent national anthem protests, they should start by asking a question. For example, should athletes have the right to kneel during the national anthem? Or are athletes who protest being patriotic or unpatriotic? As students do research, they will gather evidence that will support a position. Once they find enough compelling evidence, they are ready to assert a claim (or thesis or resolution).Assert a Claim In small groups or as a whole class, students can debate one or more claims that were generated by students — or the teacher. After they have the opportunity to test their arguments with their peers and hear other points of view, they can write up their argument as an essay or editorial.Below are a few possible resolutions that students can affirm or negate, with related articles below.Resolution 1: The N.F.L. has the right to demand that its players stand during the national anthem.Surprise! The N.F.L. National Anthem Problem Is Not Going Away. N.F.L. Anthem Policy Bound to Please Only the N.F.L. Trump Supports N.F.L.’s New National Anthem Policy Dolphins Policy Says Players Could Be Suspended for Anthem ProtestsResolution 2: Colin Kaepernick is a hero.Why Kaepernick Takes the Knee This Time, Colin Kaepernick Takes a Stand by Kneeling The Awakening of Colin Kaepernick The Deafening Silence of Colin Kaepernick Colin Kaepernick’s Nike Campaign Keeps N.F.L. Anthem Kneeling in SpotlightResolution 3: Schools have the right to suspend student-athletes who protest during their games.Protest Started by Colin Kaepernick Spreads to High School Students High School Students Explain Why They Protest Anthems and Pledges High Schools Threaten to Punish Students Who Kneel During Anthem High School Students Kicked Off Football Team After Protesting During National AnthemResolution 4: Athletes who are politically active are a distraction to their teams and should stick to competing in their sport.In 2017, Many Athletes Found Their Voices Should Athletes Stick to Sports? Colin Kaepernick and the Myth of the ‘Good’ ProtestCase Study #3. Performance-Enhancing DrugsCheating has always existed in sports: spitballs in baseball; weighted gloves in boxing; stealing another team’s signs. Players are always looking for an edge, but perhaps none is more contentious and troubling than the edge that performance-enhancing drugs provide — steroids, human growth hormone, blood doping.Some of sports’ most celebrated athletes have been caught using PEDs: for example, the cyclist Lance Armstrong, the gold-medal runner Marion Jones, the tennis champion Maria Sharapova and the Ultimate Fighting Championship star Jon Jones. In 2018, the entire Russian Winter Olympic team was barred from competing for doping violations.Let’s say students have already generated their research questions related to the topic of performance-enhancing drugs in sports, they have done initial research, and they have asserted a claim they plan to defend in writing. What else can they do before they start typing to get an edge?Study the ProsAnalyzing mentor texts can help students identify how writers build arguments using claims, reasons and supporting details, and they can help students see how to develop effective counterarguments as well.Here are excerpts from two Opinion essays offering opposing viewpoints to the question: Should known steroid users be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame?In “Keep Rose, Bond and Clemens Out of the Baseball Hall of Fame,” Bijan C. Bayne makes the case for why Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens, two statistical heavyweights in the sport, should not be inducted into the Hall of Fame:Bonds and Clemens … sealed their own Hall of Fame fates.Bonds has said he didn’t know what was in ointments and injections he received — the “clear” and the “cream” — or that they contained steroids. Bonds insults our intelligence by feigning ignorance. World-class athletes know how many grams of protein are in a six ounce portion of salmon. Why would he use these substances without knowing their purpose?While some might say that performance-enhancing drugs don’t enhance the hand-eye coordination that made him great even before he seems to have started using them, they do produce stronger, larger muscles that facilitate quicker reaction times. Larger muscles also increase hitting power. And these drugs allow for faster recovery times after the fatigue of weight training and aid athletic endurance.Zev Chafets argues the other side in “Let Steroids Into the Hall of Fame”:Purists say that steroids alter the game. But since the Hall opened its doors, baseball has never stopped changing. Batters now wear body padding and helmets. The pitcher’s mound has risen and fallen. Bats have more pop. Night games affect visibility. Players stay in shape in the off-season. Expansion has altered the game’s geography. And its demography has changed beyond recognition. Babe Ruth never faced a black pitcher. As Chris Rock put it, Ruth’s record consisted of “714 affirmative-action home runs.” This doesn’t diminish Ruth’s accomplishment, but it puts it into context.After reading these different points of view, students can brainstorm a list of strengths and weaknesses in each article and in each writer’s argument. Which argument is more effective? Convincing? Memorable? What elements are fact versus opinion? When is opinion most appropriate in an argument? Are there any aspects of either article that seem weak? Why? What might make these arguments stronger?Together, the class can create a list of dos and don’ts for building an argument. For example, “DO: support your ideas with relevant statistics.” Or, “DON’T: assume your reader will agree with your viewpoint.”For students researching this topic, here are just a few of the many related resources in The Times and elsewhere:Some other relevant resourcesShould Doping Be Allowed? Testing Levels the Playing Field How to Fight Doping in Sports Would legal doping level playing field? A Voice of Skepticism on the Impact of Steroids There Are No Sound Moral Arguments Against Performance-Enhancing Drugs Performance-enhancing drugs: Know the risks | Mayo Clinic Why Cheating in Sports Is Prevalent — and We Can’t Stop It | Forbes Magazine The Steroid Problem, and How to Fix It | Sports Illustrated Kids_________Other Current Debates in SportsWe have provided three possible case studies above to explore, but there are innumerable questions to research, discuss and debate. Here is an additional list of 11 questions. And of course, students can suggest their own topics.Should Every Young Athlete Get a Trophy? Should Character Matter in Pro Sports? Is It Wrong to Let Children Do Extreme Sports? Should College Athletes Be Paid? Should Gambling on Sporting Events Be Legal? Should Male and Female Athletes Be Paid the Same? Is Technology Helping or Hurting Sports? Is the 3-Point Basket Ruining Basketball? Is Horse Racing Ethical? Are Advanced Statistics Helping or Hurting Sports? Should Offensive Team Names and Mascots Be Ended?_________Asking students to question the status quo in the world of sports doesn’t only help them strengthen their argument writing and speaking skills, but it can also strengthen their creative thinking and problem-solving skills.A. Propose a New Sport for the OlympicsWe have all played or watched sports. But what exactly is a sport?What is the difference between a sport and a hobby? Is fishing a sport? How about poker? What about E-sports? Should the top players of League of Legends be considered athletes? And if so, would they be in the same class as LeBron James?How about chess?Don’t answer too quickly; chess is recognized as a sport in 107 countries. Poker is broadcast on ESPN.Define Your TermsAn essential aspect of making an effective argument is the need to be clear and precise in defining terms. We discussed earlier about how one defines G.O.A.T. frames the entire “greatest of all time” debate. The same can be said for defining terms like “performance-enhancing drugs” in the debate about steroids or “patriotic” in the discussion about national anthem protests. When it comes to deciding what should or should not be considered a sport, or an Olympic sport, defining the term “sport” is essential.Students might begin by reading the following articles and then designing their own criteria for what is or isn’t a sport:Are Video Games a Sport Born on Sideline, Cheering Clamors to Be Sport Competitive Bridge Is Not a Sport, a British Court RulesStudent Challenge: Make a formal argument to the International Olympic Committee to add or delete a sport.The fight over which sports get to be featured in the Olympics sheds light on the continuing societal question, “What is a sport?” Currently, there are 28 summer and 15 winter Olympic sports. (See the full list of sports here.) Did you know life saving is  officially recognized by the International Olympic Committee as a sport (though, as Victor Mather writes, “that doesn’t mean it will take its place in the Summer Games alongside venerable sports like track, basketball and synchronized swimming”).Students can begin their research with the following examples:Are Video Games Olympic Material? Some Boosters Say Yes The Olympics Would Be Better With a Breakdancing Competition. Discuss. Great Moments in Cheerleading: Could the Olympics Be Next? Too Many Olympic Events, or Not Enough?Next, students should pick one Olympic sport to add or delete. They should then prepare an argument to support this proposal.In making their case, students should compare the sports they are proposing to existing Olympic sports, and provide criteria for assessing those comparisons.In his Room for Debate opinion essay “Drop the Sliding Sports,” Robert K. Barney writes:Are there some winter sports that should be dropped? It may be perceived by many as blasphemous, but I have always had a difficult time in equating the demonstrated lack of athletic qualities in winter sliding sports, like bobsled, luge and skeleton, that depend more on technology and less on athleticism with those sports that reflect the epitome of strength, agility, endurance and strategy (nordic and Alpine skiing, speed and figure skating, and so on).B. Propose a Rule ChangeRules are essential for any game or sport, yet they change all the time. How basketball is played can vary greatly from state to state. Every few years, it seems, the National Football League changes what qualifies as a catch and a legal tackle, alternately confusing and infuriating players and fans alike.Student Challenge: Propose a rule change to improve the game.For inspiration, students might read some of these proposed changes — big and small, practical as well as fantastical — from the pages of The Times before making a pitch for their own rule changes.Baseball’s Too Slow. Here’s How You Fix It. Penalty-Kick Shootouts Are a World Cup Abomination In a Hole, Golf Considers Digging a Wider One Still Questioning the Best-of-Five Format in Men’s Tennis Drivers, Start Your Calculators: Nascar Introduces New Scoring System Room for Debate: Raise the RimConsider the Proposal From All SidesWhether you want to raise the basketball rim by six inches or triple the size of a golf hole, you’ll need to consider how the change would affect the sport from all angles. In guiding their research for the development of their proposal, students should keep in mind the following questions:• What are some weaknesses of the current game? (e.g., amount of scoring, length or speed of the game, popularity, and ratings)• What are the causes of the weakness? (e.g., tradition, the age of the fan base, technology)• What are some possible solutions?• How hard would it be to put the rule change in place?• What might be the drawbacks or unintended consequences of your game change?• How might purists or other critics respond to your rule change? How might you try to persuade them to join your side?In “Penalty-Kick Shootouts Are a World Cup Abomination,” Rob Hughes passionately states a perceived problem in the current game of soccer:The penalty shootout is an abomination. It reduces a team sport to a contrived tiebreaker that obliges physically tired and emotionally drained players to step up one by one, trudge half the length of the field and try to shoot down the opponent’s goalkeeper from 12 yards....Júlio César Soares de Espíndola — to give him his full title — guessed correctly and dove the right way to save the first two penalty kicks against him. He then was beaten twice. Finally, Júlio César just got plain lucky when Gonzalo Jara fired Chile’s fifth penalty beyond his reach, but against the post.From that twist of fate, that misplacement by inches, Brazil’s hope of winning the World Cup for the sixth time in its illustrious history remains on track. Two hundred million hearts in Brazil can beat again. Chile can go home across the Andes, defeated not by two hours of soccer, but by the lottery of shootouts that have their proper place alongside fairground games such as knocking over targets at a dozen paces.Later, Mr. Hughes considers some solutions to the problem:The old solution used to be that tied games were replayed, but in today’s crowded schedules, expediency demands that the result is decided on that day. FIFA tried the toss of a coin and had rejected a brighter idea from the now defunct North American Soccer League.The N.A.S.L. of the 1970s had, to my mind, a fairer option.It required an outfield player to run with the ball from 35 yards out, giving him five seconds to score and allowing the goalkeeper to advance toward the player.That at least contained more skills than the single shot of a nervous, fatigued individual.No matter what rule they focus on, students should be clear to state the problem with the status quo and support their claim with details. Then they should propose a solution and explain why it would help to eliminate, or at least improve, the problem with the current rule._________Below, we provide a few possible ways students can build their argument writing and speaking skills and demonstrate those skills in front of an audience:A. Write an EditorialHave your students pick a sports-related issue that matters to them, such as inequity in pay for female athletes, and then write an evidence-based persuasive essay like the editorials The New York Times publishes every day. They can practice all year, but save their best work to submit in our annual Student Editorial Contest. (See our contest calendar for more details.) Each year we select 10 winners along with dozens of runners-up and honorable mentions from thousands of submissions.Here are some sports-related editorials from the New York Times Editorial Board that can serve as mentor texts (in addition to our winning editorials from past years):The Corruption at the Heart of March MadnessRein In Online Fantasy Sports Gambling What Time Is the A.F.C. Championship Game? The Scars From ‘Bell-Ringing’ Football Tackles Who Gets to Race as a Woman? Special Olympics Takes On the WorldAdditional Resources for Writing EditorialsStudent Writing Models | Winning Student Editorials. Lesson Plan | Persuading an Audience Using Logos, Pathos and Ethos  Lesson Plan | For the Sake of Argument: Writing Persuasively to Craft Short, Evidence-Based Editorials Lesson Plan | I Don’t Think So: Writing Effective CounterargumentsB. Have a DebateThere are many ways to hold formal and informal debates. Here are a few popular formats:Lincoln-Douglas Debate: In this formal debate format, arguments are divided into timed segments and go back and forth between the “pro” and the “con” sides, with teams presenting arguments, providing evidence to support arguments and offering rebuttals. See our 2004 lesson Weighing the War for more details about this format.Roundtable Discussion: Students take on the role of experts and engage in a talk show-style debate similar to the discussion format on such TV shows as “Meet the Press.”Tournament Brackets: Students hold a research- and debate-based “tournament” to determine the “winners” of each round, until a final winner is declared.Structured Academic Controversy: Pairs assigned to each position research and then present their argument to a pair that is assigned the opposing side. The debate follows these steps: Identify the argument; present the argument; restate the argument; discuss opinions; share conclusions; debrief the exercise. See our lesson On ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’: Debating a Proposed Repeal for more details about this format.Moving Debate: After preparing for a debate on an assigned topic, students are arranged in the room in three sections: agree, disagree and neutral/unsure. The debate proceeds with “members” of each section taking turns to make arguments for their position and ask questions of others. As they are beginning to question, refine or change their positions (even momentarily so), they physically move to the sections of the room that reflect their mind-set. See the civics section of our lesson Preserve, Protect and Defend? Considering Violent Protests and American Values for more details about this format.Other resourcesConstructing Arguments: ‘Room for Debate’ and the Common Core Standards Reader Idea | Using Room for Debate to Teach Argumentative Writing and Discussion Skills Winners of Our Student Contest Featured in a Special Room for Debate Post Reader Idea | Debates on Persuasive Language That Extend Outside of ClassC. Use Our Daily Student Opinion PromptsOf all the resources we publish on The Learning Network, perhaps it’s our vast collection of writing prompts that is our most widely used resource for teaching and learning with The Times.So scroll through the sports-related prompts below and see which ones most inspire you to take a stand. Each question comes from our daily Student Opinion feature, and each provides links to free Times resources for finding more information.Are Some Youth Sports Too Intense? Should There Be Stricter Rules About How Coaches Treat Their Players? Do Sports Teams Have a Responsibility to Hold Players to a Standard for Their Personal Conduct? Should College Athletes Be Paid? Should Colleges Fund Wellness Programs Instead of Sports? Do Fans Put Too Much Pressure on Their Favorite Professional Athletes? How Much Should Fans Be Allowed to Distract Opposing Teams? Has Baseball Lost Its Cool? Should Women’s Basketball Lower the Rims? Is It Offensive for Sports Teams to Use Native American Names and Mascots? Should Technology in Sports Be Limited?D. Create A Public Service AnnouncementThere are many ways to present an argument; while many of our previous examples focus on writing and speaking, visual thinking is also important. Public service announcements can be both fun and a challenging way for students to take a stance on an issue and to creatively persuade audiences.Students can begin with traditional forms of research and then identify an issue or stance they want to take before envisioning their P.S.A. They can then plan, storyboard, rehearse, record and edit a 30- or 60-second video including a tagline and message.To start, students should view and analyze professional sports public service announcements to understand the strengths and weaknesses of the form. You can use these professional PSAs as models:Ross Initiative in Sports for Equality NFL Players & Coaches Stand Together to Cure ALS NFL Players’ Concussion PSA: Be Man Enough to Admit When You’re Hurt PSA Youth Concussions UEFA’s Anti-racism Resolution Thierry Henry Stand UP, Speak UP CommercialAs a class, analyze and discuss: What is a public service announcement? How is it different from a commercial? What is the message of the P.S.A.? Who is the target audience? What video and audio elements were used? How did these elements strengthen the message? How effective was the P.S.A.? How might you improve it?After identifying their issue or question and conducting research, students can begin planning their public service announcement.Here are some process steps to consider:• Determine a clear message. • Identify a target audience. • Develop a tagline or slogan. • Brainstorm video (stills, graphics, performers) and audio (narration, voice-over, music, sound effects) elements you will use to convey your message. • Storyboard your PSA. • Rehearse. • Record. • Edit._________Do you teach with sports reporting? We’d love to hear more about how. Write to LNFeedback@nytimes.com, or post a comment here. Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Howard MegdalAaron Gordon sat slouched in front of his locker, immobile as ice packs worked on his body following yet another loss earlier this season. His Orlando Magic teammates showered and dressed, and left.Gordon’s back had been bothering him, and no wonder: He’s in his fifth year of carrying the Magic franchise. And he is in for the long haul, too. After doing what he described as “due diligence” this past summer, Gordon signed a four-year, $80 million contract, handing over most of his mid-20s to a team that, so far, has failed to put a winning combination around him.But if the 6-foot-9 multidimensional star is still waiting for a winning supporting cast, his 2018-19 season is the latest, best evidence yet that he is approaching a specific kind of broad-based play that is fast becoming a requirement for surviving in the N.B.A.Gordon showed it off days ago in a 103-96 win over the Golden State Warriors.He did it all, scoring 22 points, pulling down 15 rebounds and using his defensive athleticism to help limit the Warriors to 9-for-40 shooting from 3-point range. By the end of last week, the surging Magic had found themselves in eighth place in the Eastern Conference and in new territory for Gordon: the playoff race.It has taken every skill Gordon has, but for his part, the 23-year-old has embraced the way the competition in the N.B.A. has demanded that he do virtually everything on any given night.“Versatility is going to be a huge part. The league is going in that direction,” Gordon said. “So it’s going to be 6-9, 6-10, 6-11, 7-foot guys able to do everything — handle the ball, pass, shoot, rebound. That’s the way the game is going to be.”And that’s the way the game is for Gordon, and how it has been dating back to his high school days at Archbishop Mitty in San Jose, Calif., where he played point guard before a late growth spurt turned him into a 6-foot-9 forward at Arizona, and then the fourth overall pick in the 2014 N.B.A. draft.The Magic can use Gordon anywhere.For three consecutive possessions in a game against the Houston Rockets in January, Gordon found himself bringing the ball up the floor and feeding center Nikola Vucevic in the post, settling out on the wing for a 3-pointer on a catch-and-shoot, and then posting up himself.“Offensively, his efficiency is up, and his assists are way up,” Magic Coach Steve Clifford said of Gordon. “I think one of our issues has been drawing fouls and getting the ball going into the paint. And that’s something he’s done a good job with.”Gordon was back in San Jose this past summer, getting up 300 shots every day, and the result has been a 53.3 true shooting percentage, his most efficient showing in three years, even as he’s taken more shots from everywhere on the court and opposing defenses have constructed game plans around stopping him.But he also put in extra time on work like slide steps, all with the long-range goal of becoming an elite two-way player. Clifford said Gordon laid out his plans for himself when the two first spoke after Clifford was hired over the summer.The results have been extraordinary. Per Synergy, Gordon ranks second (of 140 qualified players) in the N.B.A. in points per possession on isolation plays, minimum 40 possessions, with 0.545 points per possession.And he isn’t doing this against just bigs, either: The Magic routinely play him against the opposing team’s biggest offensive threat.When the Magic played the Nets in January, Orlando had Gordon take on Joe Harris, a shooting guard, the league leader in three-point percentage and winner of the three-point contest during All-Star weekend.“That speaks to, first of all, what they think of Joe, and also what they think of Gordon’s defensive game,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “And defensively, when he wants to stop a guy, he can stop him — he has phenomenal athleticism.”The extent of Gordon’s abilities on that end were revealed further against the Nets that night, when a switch landed Gordon on the Nets’ D’Angelo Russell, an uber-quick point guard in the midst of the finest scoring barrage of his career. Russell feinted left, right, trying to find a pathway with his dribble from the top of the key. Gordon did not let him pass, and Russell, clearly frustrated, finally shunted the ball off to a teammate.The indications that Gordon has become a star are there. What is far less clear is how Orlando puts a championship team around him, though Clifford effusively endorsed him as the model player of that future roster.“He fits with what wins in the N.B.A. right now,” Clifford said. “He’s 23, and he’s made terrific gains, already, this year.”Clifford is a capable coach, in his first season with Orlando. But the roster looks less like a plan and more like a series of one-off moves. Vucevic is an excellent, traditional center, but his presence has kept Gordon, along with young bigs Mo Bamba and Jonathan Isaac, from getting significant time developing as the kind of stretch 5s most teams around the league deploy.Gordon is picked to run the offense, and does so effectively — his assist percentage of 16.4 is a career high — but that is in part because Orlando lacks a true starting point guard. Markelle Fultz may be the answer long-term, but whether the embattled former Philadelphia 76ers guard even plays this season remains a mystery.Gordon’s next step, per Clifford, needs to be the role of go-to scorer down the stretch of games, which Gordon agrees with. Will it happen?“Well, we’ll see,” Clifford said. “I mean, that’s what it’s all about. We’ll see.”But he needs help getting to those late-game situations with a chance to win it. Still, as Gordon eases into superstardom in the relative obscurity of Orlando’s slow rise in the East, he often uses visualization to help motivate himself, closing his eyes and picturing what a championship for the only franchise he’s ever known would look like.He said it gets hard to see it sometimes, pointing out that “a lot of things have to go right” even as he said he was sure it will.“Of course,” Gordon said, pulling on his pants gingerly, navigating his sore back.Toppling the Warriors last week showed Gordon just may be right. Losing to the lowly Cleveland Cavaliers on Sunday night, though, showed how far the Magic have to go.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points and the Toronto Raptors closed their regular season with a 120-100 victory over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Tuesday night.Fred VanVleet scored 16 points, and Chris Boucher had a career-high 15 points and 13 rebounds off the bench for the Raptors, who finished the regular season at 58-24.Andrew Wiggins and Gorgui Dieng each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves, who played without All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.Toronto went on a 20-5 run over the final 5:16 of the second quarter and led 69-47 at halftime.Boucher scored 11 points in 10 minutes in the second quarter. Boucher's previous career best was the nine points he scored Dec. 28 against the Orlando Magic.The Timberwolves never got closer than 15 points in the second half, and the Raptors led by as many as 32 points in the final two periods.Towns did not play because of knee soreness. Timberwolves coach Ryan Saunders said Towns would travel with the team for Wednesday's season finale in Denver and be a game-time decision.The Raptors set a franchise record with their 26th road victory of the season.GOOD TIMINGThe Raptors were in Minneapolis on Monday night, allowing coach Nick Nurse and his staff to attend Monday night's NCAA title game. Nurse played against Virginia coach Tony Bennett when Nurse was at Northern Iowa and Bennett was at Wisconsin-Green Bay. "I think I held him to 29 points one time," Nurse joked.TIP-INSRaptors: G Kyle Lowry (rest), F/C Serge Ibaka (rest) and G Patrick McCaw (sprained right thumb) did not play. VanVleet started in place of Lowry. . Toronto reached 1,000 made 3-pointers in a season for the first time.Timberwolves: G Jerryd Bayless (right ankle contusion) and F Taj Gibson (strained left calf) did not play. They joined Towns and long-term absentees F Robert Covington (bone bruise on right knee), F Luol Deng (left Achilles soreness), G Derrick Rose (right elbow surgery) and G Jeff Teague (left foot inflammation) in missing the game. . Dieng made his first start since April 12, 2017. . Tyus Jones had his stretch of 129:18 without a turnover snapped.UP NEXTRaptors: Host either Brooklyn Nets or Orlando Magic in Eastern Conference playoffs.Timberwolves: At Denver Nuggets on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byStars being added to Eastern Conference powerhouses drew most of the headlines, but there were other moves that could prove significant.By Benjamin HoffmanN.B.A. fans can be forgiven for being distracted by shiny objects. And there are few objects shinier than a star who is being added to a playoff contender.But even though the powerhouses of the Eastern Conference went to war over which team could add the biggest piece, it is worth taking a look at some under-the-radar moves that could prove significant this season or in the near future. Amid the flurry of moves this week, these three deals stood out as opportunities for players to thrive in situations far more advantageous to their careers than where they had been, which could end up paying significant dividends to the teams that acquired them.The Magic are trading Jonathon Simmons, a first-round pick and a second-round pick to the Philadelphia 76ers for Fultz, according to The Athletic.Why it matters: The very public breakdown of Fultz’s career has made any move involving him relevant. A consensus No. 1 pick in the 2017 draft after a terrific freshman season at Washington, Fultz was viewed by Philadelphia as the endgame of the team’s long-running Process. The Sixers traded the No. 3 pick in that draft (which ended up being Jayson Tatum) and a future first-round pick (likely to be Sacramento’s pick in this year’s draft) to Boston so they could move up two spots to get him.Things fell apart almost immediately. Fultz’s shooting form went from quirky to horrendous, debates emerged as to whether he had been injured or had simply lost his confidence, and he played just 14 games last season and 19 this season before shutting down with a diagnosis of thoracic outlet syndrome.No one knows what Fultz is capable of, but it had become painfully obvious that he was not going to have the opportunity to play his way through his problems with the Sixers, a team that believes it has a legitimate chance of winning the East this year.In Orlando, the pressure should be turned down considerably. The team values length, and while Fultz is a modest 6-foot-4, he has a seven-foot wingspan and has at times shown flashes of brilliance, including during a game last April in which he became the first teenager to officially record a triple-double in the N.B.A.In this week’s trade, Philadelphia managed to land a few picks to replace what it gave up to be able to draft Fultz. But Simmons is primarily filler to make the trade work, and the move is mostly about clearing an unproductive player off the Sixers’ roster and letting him try to find a better situation elsewhere. As Fultz looks to avoid joining Anthony Bennett and LaRue Martin as the biggest busts to be taken with the No. 1 overall pick, Orlando seems as good of a place as any to get started.The Kings traded Justin Jackson and Zach Randolph to the Dallas Mavericks for Barnes.Why it matters: The Kings entered Thursday night’s games as the No. 9 seed in the West, one and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers and one game ahead of the Los Angeles Lakers. With the Clippers having just traded Tobias Harris, the door is open for Sacramento to secure its first playoff spot since 2006.Sacramento plays extraordinarily fast, partly as a result of repeatedly using lineups with three guards, but they play at a significant size disadvantage.Enter Barnes, a 6-8 small forward who gives the team a bigger body without requiring the offense to slow down all that much.It’s hard to remember after three productive-if-uninspiring seasons in Dallas, but Barnes was once a member of Golden State’s ultrafluid Death Lineup, and if he can get back to a 3-and-D style of play, he could be a perfect addition to the Kings’ starting five, though that does not mean the deal is without drawbacks.First and foremost, Barnes has been used to a high-usage role in Dallas, and that will not be available to him in Sacramento, a team with an offensive pecking order that will make him a third option at best. He also has let his defense slide to the point where he was a net negative on the court for Dallas. The Kings will probably be on the hook for his $25.1 million player option next year, and if he isn’t on board to shift his style of play, he could make the team worse.All of that said, Barnes is still just 26, and after winning a championship in his third season, and 73 regular-season games in his fourth year, he has not sniffed the playoffs since. A return to a relevant team could unlock the complementary player who helped Golden State soar, and for a franchise that has often been accused of sabotaging itself, this is a real attempt to make the team better.The Bulls traded Jabari Parker and Bobby Portis to the Washington Wizards for Porter. Why it matters: Neither team is going anywhere this season, but Chicago is trying to set up the team’s future by acquiring Porter, a player with loads of potential — and an enormous contract — who has sometimes failed to click in Washington.Porter, a 25-year-old forward who has plenty of size at 6-8, has seen his statistics decline this season, at least in part because of the overall decline of the Wizards. But at his best, he is capable of shooting better than 40 percent from 3-point range while also contributing rebounding and passing. For an example of why Chicago would take a flier on a frustrating player owed a great deal of money, look no further than one of the players he was traded for: Parker. Last off-season, the Bulls had money to spend and wanted to make a free-agent splash. Parker, a player known as much for being injury prone as for being defense-averse, was the best they could do. In Porter they pick up a young player with plenty of potential who is owed a little more than $27 million next season and has a player option of a bit less than $28.5 million in 2020-21. That is probably better than what Chicago could get on the open market, which makes it worth saying goodbye to Portis, a decent rotation player who was mostly wasted on a team that is several big pieces away from contention.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOSTON — Terrence Ross had 26 points, Nikola Vucevic added 25 points and 12 rebounds and the Orlando Magic rallied past the Boston Celtics 116-108 on Sunday night to clinch their first playoff berth in seven years.Evan Fournier added 24 points for Orlando (41-40), which last made the postseason during the 2011-12 season. Sunday's victory also gave the Magic their first regular-season sweep over Boston since 1996-97.Even with the loss, the Celtics (48-33) clinched at least the fourth seed and home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs just before tip-off. That came courtesy of Brooklyn's win over Indiana.Kyrie Irving had 23 points for Boston. Al Horford finished with 18 points and Gordon Hayward added 16 off the bench.The Magic erased a 13-point first-half deficit and took an 83-78 lead into the fourth quarter. They kept it going, starting the final period on an 11-2 run, which included nine points by Ross.Boston responded with run of its own and tied the game at 106 on a 3-pointer by Irving with 2:50 remaining.The Magic kept attacking.Fournier got free in the lane and dunked over Terry Rozier to put the Magic back in front. The Celtics turned it over on their next possession. That was followed by an Aaron Gordon layup on the other end that made it 110-106.Celtics coach Brad Stevens said before the game that the Indiana outcomes wouldn't affect how much he played his starters against Orlando.But there clearly was interest in Boston's locker room beforehand, as evidenced in the television tuned to the Pacers-Nets matchup.As for his rotations, Stevens was true to his word and played his starters their normal minutes.It proved costly.Jayson Tatum limped off the court at the six-minute mark of the first quarter with a left shin contusion and did not return.Marcus Smart left with 6:15 remaining in the third, helped off by trainers and holding his left side after banging hips with Vucevic. He was diagnosed with a left hip contusion.Stevens will almost certainly rest both during Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.TIP-INSMagic: Vucevic had his 60th double-double of the season.Celtics: Hayward has now scored in double-figures in eight consecutive games.UP NEXTMagic: Regular-season finale at Charlotte Tuesday.Celtics: Regular-season finale at Washington Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCount Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James among those who were stunned by team president Magic Johnson's resignation on Tuesday night. But according to ESPN's Ramona Shelburne on Wednesday, James still stands behind the organization and Lakers owner Jeanie Buss.ESPN also reported that head coach Luke Walton participated in exit meetings with the players on Wednesday. Walton's job security is in jeopardy after the Lakers (37-45) missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season despite the offseason signing of James to a four-year, $154 million deal.James, 34, battled injuries and appeared in a career-low 55 games and averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists per game in 2018-19.--Following his meeting with Walton, James headed to New York, where he, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony watched Dwyane Wade play his final NBA game. The Miami Heat closed out the season against the Brooklyn Nets.After a pregame video tribute to Wade, the retiring superstar went over and hugged each of his three friends. The four have been friends for years, their bond immortalized by a photo of James, Wade and Paul riding a banana boat together while on vacation in 2015. Anthony was not in the picture but was also on vacation with the group.--Boston Celtics guard Marcus Smart has a torn left oblique and could miss the first two rounds of the Eastern Conference playoffs, according to a report from ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski.Smart averaged 8.9 points, 4.0 assists and 2.9 rebounds this season for the Celtics, who will be the fourth seed in the East after posting a 49-33 regular-season record. Boston will open at home this weekend against the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers. The physical guard is noted as one of the NBA's top defenders.Smart sustained the injury in a game against the Orlando Magic on Sunday, and he did not play in Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.--Anthony Davis acknowledged that despite his desire to leave New Orleans, he could begin the 2019-20 season with the Pelicans."I'm under contract still," Davis said during an informal season-ending news conference. "I have a year left. Obviously it's a possibility it could happen. I don't have ill will toward anybody. I know that it's a possibility that next year I could be here as well. So I can't be mad if I'm here next year."Davis said his next step will be to see who emerges as the general manager for the Pelicans. Dell Demps was fired in February after his handling of the Davis situation, and Danny Ferry is the interim general manager.--The Phoenix Suns have hired longtime NBA general manager Jeff Bower as their vice president of operations, Wojnarowski reported.Bower, 57, was general manager of the then-New Orleans Hornets from October 2005 to July 2010, and he also served as the team's head coach for most of the 2009-10 season after the firing of Byron Scott.The Suns have been without a general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.--The Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.Saunders, 32, is the youngest head coach in the league. He took over when Tom Thibodeau was fired in early January and has earned the endorsement of his players, most notably from All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.The Timberwolves were 36-45 entering Wednesday night's season finale at Denver, including a 17-24 mark under Saunders' leadership. Saunders reportedly will receive a three-year deal with a team option on the final season.--The Timberwolves also announced that guard Jeff Teague underwent successful debridement surgery Tuesday to clean out his left ankle. The team had no additional updates as to any recovery timetable.Teague played in 42 games for the Minnesota this season, averaging 12.1 points and a career-best 8.2 assists in 30.1 minutes. The team shut him down for the season in mid-March.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTORONTO — Kept off the scoreboard in a Game 1 defeat, Toronto Raptors guard Kyle Lowry was "at his finest" in Game 2, at least in the eyes of coach Nick Nurse.Fellow All-Star Kawhi Leonard wasn't too bad, either.Leonard scored 37 points, Lowry bounced back with 22 and the Raptors routed the Orlando Magic 111-82 on Tuesday night, evening their Eastern Conference first-round series at one win apiece.Pascal Siakam had 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who never trailed and led by as many as 34.Game 3 is Friday night in Orlando.Leonard said Lowry "led us in intensity," helping the East's No. 2 seed avoid a 2-0 hole."He did a great job of bouncing back," Leonard said. "He's a pro. That's what pros do, they know it's just one game and they come in the next game ready to play."Lowry, who missed all seven attempts in Game 1, shot 8 for 13 and led his team with seven assists."He was big time tonight," Nurse said. "That's him at his finest."Siakam said Lowry was visibly more tuned in Tuesday than he was Saturday."From the jump he had that fire in his eyes," Siakam said. "That's the Kyle we know."Despite playing in foul trouble for much of the night, Leonard finished with a career playoff-high 15 field goals. He made his first nine attempts from inside the arc before missing a layup.Leonard shot 15 for 22 before leaving to a standing ovation with 4:46 remaining and Toronto ahead 104-73."Leonard was great," Magic coach Steve Clifford said. "What are you going to do? He was great."Leonard's career playoff high is 43, set with San Antonio against Memphis on April 22, 2017. He made 14 baskets in that game."Tonight he was just in a groove, getting downhill, getting to his spots," Lowry said. "He's a player who knows where he wants to be on the floor and when he gets to those spots, he's pretty tough to guard."Aaron Gordon scored 20 points, Terrence Ross had 15 and Evan Fournier 10 for the Magic, who won the opener 104-101 on a tiebreaking 3 by D.J. Augustin with 4.2 seconds to go.Nikola Vucevic, who shot 3 for 14 in Game 1, struggled again in Game 2, going 3 of 7 and scoring six points."They did a good job taking away a lot of my strengths," Vucevic said. "I've just got to figure out a way to be more aggressive, be more efficient offensively."Augustin, who had 25 points Saturday, shot 1 for 6. Seven of his nine points came at the free throw line.Orlando didn't score for almost five minutes to start the game, missing its first six shots and four straight free throws. The drought ended when Gordon rebounded and scored on Vucevic's miss from the line at 7:14 of the first, answering an 11-0 Toronto run.Leonard scored 12 points in the opening quarter as the Raptors led 26-18 after one."Their defense set the tone for the game in the first quarter," Clifford said.Lowry scored 11 points in the second and Siakam added six, putting Toronto up 51-39 at halftime. Orlando shot 13 for 40 in the opening two quarters.Leonard connected of seven of nine attempts in the third, scoring 17 points. The Raptors outscored the Magic 39-27 to take a 90-66 lead into the fourth."At halftime, I thought we had settled down," Clifford said. "Then, at the beginning of the third quarter, they were good and, frankly, we were awful."TIP-INSMagic: Orlando missed its first five free throw attempts before Ross made two of three at 2:11 of the first. The Magic shot 8 for 16 at the line in the first half and finished 13 for 24. ... Ross had 15 of Orlando's 17 bench points in the first half. ... The Magic were outscored 52-36 in the paint. ... Orlando has outrebounded Toronto in all six meetings this season.Raptors: Lowry snapped his scoring slump by splitting a pair of free throws at 10:48 of the first, leading to thunderous applause. He was cheered again after hitting a 3 at 6:52. ... Only four players scored in the first half. Leonard had 17, Lowry 15, Siakam 12 and Serge Ibaka 7. ... Toronto has won nine straight playoff games in which it makes more 3-pointers than its opponent. Toronto shot 11 for 35 Tuesday, while Orlando was 9 for 34. ... G Patrick McCaw (sprained right thumb) was not available despite practicing the previous two days. ... Toronto is 8-8 all time in Game 2s.TURNED OVEROrlando had just 11 turnovers in Game 1 but gave the ball away 17 times in Game 2, including on both of its opening two possessions."If we're going to make this a long series, and hopefully we will, we're going to need to be stronger with the ball," Gordon said. "Simple as that."HOME SWEET HOMEOrlando has won nine straight at home and is unbeaten on its own court since a Feb. 22 loss to Chicago."We feed off the crowd, we like their energy," Gordon said.UP NEXTGame 3 is Friday night in Orlando.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTORONTO — For the Orlando Magic, the first game of the playoffs felt a lot like the final few weeks of the regular season: high stakes, small margins, and a big win at the end of the day.D.J. Augustin scored 25 points, including the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 3.5 seconds left, and the Magic beat the Toronto Raptors 104-101 in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round series on Saturday.Kawhi Leonard got a final shot for Toronto, but missed the rim with his 3-pointer from the top.Orlando went 22-9 over the final 31 games of the season to clinch its first playoff berth since 2012."I think it helps," Magic coach Steve Clifford said of his team's tough regular-season finish. "We've been playing games that we had to win and were meaningful games for a while."Nikola Vucevic, who scored 11 points, said Orlando's stretch drive help the team's mental preparation for the grind of the postseason."Throughout this last month, we were able to fight through a lot of different adversity and it has kind of prepared us for the playoffs," Vucevic said.And, when crunch time arrived in Game 1, Orlando was entirely unfazed."We made a bunch of big plays in the last three or four minutes," Clifford said.Aaron Gordon had 10 points and 10 rebounds, Evan Fournier scored 16 points and Jonathan Isaac had 11 as the No. 7-seeded Magic became the latest team to beat Toronto in the opening game of a playoff series. The Raptors are 2-14 in playoff openers."We know who we are and this is one game," Toronto's Kyle Lowry said. "We've got to make sure we know who we are and execute what we can do. When we do what we are supposed to do, we are really, really good."Leonard scored 25 points, Pascal Siakam had 24 and Fred VanVleet had 14 for the second-seeded Raptors, who reclaimed the lead after trailing by 16 points in the second quarter, but couldn't hold on down the stretch.Toronto got 13 points apiece from Danny Green and Marc Gasol, but Lowry finished scoreless, missing all seven of his attempts. Lowry did have eight assists and seven rebounds."He had some really good looks that he's normally going to knock down," coach Nick Nurse said. "I'm sure he'll bounce back and play a little better in the next game."Leonard hit a tying 3 with 1:35 left, then put Toronto up 101-99 with a jumper at 1:02. Augustin made a layup to tie it again with 44 seconds left, then connected from long range for the fourth time to win the game.Gasol said he and Leonard got their defensive assignments mixed up on Augustin's decisive shot, leaving the guard wide open."It was a mistake made on that play," Gasol said. "We miscommunicated and he made a good shot."Augustin's 3 was the seventh lead change of the final quarter and the 13th of the game."When I saw the opening, I shot the ball with confidence and it went in," he said.Augustin made 9 of 13 attempts, going 4 of 5 from beyond the arc.Leonard made all four of his attempts in the first and added a pair of free throws. He scored 11 points in the opening quarter as Toronto led 30-25.Leading 42-41 with 3:46 remaining in the second, Orlando got 10 points from Augustin in a 15-0 run that put the Magic up 57-41 with 55 seconds left. Siakam stopped Toronto's drought with a jump shot, and Gasol and Green added 3-pointers but the Raptors trailed 57-49 at halftime.Leonard scored five points as Toronto used a 12-2 spurt at the start of the third, reclaiming the lead on Gasol's 3 at 8:19. Siakam scored eight points in the third, while Leonard and Green each had seven, as the Raptors took a narrow 76-75 lead to the fourth.TIP-INSMagic: F Jonathan Isaac (concussion) and Nikola Vucevic (illness) both started after missing Orlando's regular-season finale Wednesday. ...Vucevic didn't score in the first quarter, missing all three of his attempts.Raptors: Toronto shot 3 for 10 from 3-point range in the first quarter, and 3 for 11 in the second. The Raptors finished 12 for 36 from outside. ... Siakam had nine rebounds.HERO'S WELCOMEFormer Raptors C Jonas Valanciunas got a huge ovation when he walked to his baseline seat near the Toronto bench a few minutes before the tipoff. Valanciunas, C.J. Miles and Delon Wright were traded to Memphis in February for Gasol.END OF THE LINEToronto failed to score at least 110 points for the first time in 10 games. The Raptors sett a franchise record by scoring 110 or more in nine straight games to finish the regular season.UP NEXTGame 2 is Tuesday night in Toronto___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Dwyane Wade was hurting, sitting on the training table trying to get enough treatment to get him on the floor one last time.A couple of hours later, he looked like a guy capable of playing well beyond the final night of his career.Wade had 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in his last NBA game, which the Brooklyn Nets won by beating the Miami Heat 113-94 on Wednesday night to finish 42-40 and clinch the No. 6 seed in the Eastern Conference.With close friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony leading the cheers from their courtside seats, Wade had his fifth career triple-double in three quarters. He fittingly secured it with a pass to Udonis Haslem, his teammate of 15 years who plays sparingly now and made his only start of the season."I was like, I don't know why, but everybody feels like now you've got to go out and score 60 in your last game because Kobe did it," said Wade, wearing a sparkling gold jacket and gold sneakers. "So hopefully I took the bar all the way back down and say let's go get a triple-double, that's easier."A night after scoring 30 points in his final game in Miami, Wade showed one more time that he's walking away with his skills intact.He played 36 minutes, dribbling out the shot clock the final time he had the ball before checking out with 10 seconds remaining. Then it was time for a lengthy postgame celebration on the court with teammates and friends."The man went out with a triple-double. Don't let that go unnoticed. He had a triple-double," All-Star D'Angelo Russell said. "He is a guy that paved the way for a lot of us. He's been with that franchise for that long period of time. He's Mr. Miami."Russell had 21 points on seven 3-pointers for the Nets, who will face the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers beginning this weekend in their first postseason appearance since 2015, one that seemed unlikely when they were 8-18 in December. But they went 34-22 from there for their first winning record since going 44-38 in 2013-14 — when they were knocked out by Wade's Heat in the second round."Special night," Nets coach Kenny Atkinson said. "Pretty amazing season so far."The game mattered only to the Nets, who quickly ended any fears of finishing seventh and having to face the Toronto Raptors in the first round.But that was secondary to a last chance to celebrate Wade, the three-time NBA champion who was ending his 16th and final NBA season.He was loudly cheered from the moment he emerged alone from the tunnel for pregame layups. Fans — egged on at one point by Paul and Anthony — chanted "We want Wade! We want Wade!" when he was on the bench, even though the 37-year-old guard had played a season-high 35 minutes Tuesday and coach Erik Spoelstra warned before the game that it probably wouldn't be that way again.But there was no keeping Wade down for long. It took him a little bit to get going, as Jarrett Allen added Wade to the list of stars whose shots he's blocked this season — a list that included James."I loved seeing CP and Melo over there getting the crowd going to get Dwyane back in there and Dwyane comes from the old-school NBA," Spoelstra said. "That was pre-load management, so we were not load managing him tonight and I was not talking to my sports scientist whether he could go, even though I walked in and saw him on that training table an hour before the game and he did not look fit to go, at all. But he's cut from a different cloth."The Heat hoped the final game would matter, but the Nets and Orlando Magic had clinched spots over the weekend to leave only one spot left coming into the last week. Miami was eliminated from contention for it despite its victory Tuesday."For me, I'm happy with this season," Wade said. "Unfortunately for our organization and our team, we weren't able to put ourselves in a position to win enough games to be in the playoffs, but for what I wanted for this season, I'm happy to say that I completed that."TIP-INSHeat: Haslem finished with 12 points and 11 rebounds. ... Wade passed Elgin Baylor (23,149 points) to move into 29th place on the NBA's career list. He finished with 23,165.Nets: Starters Joe Harris (toe) and DeMarre Carroll (right wrist) sat out, though Atkinson said they would be ready for the playoff opener. ... Shabazz Napier scored 20 points off the bench.THE LAST JERSEYWade has been exchanging jerseys with players after games this season, but there was one missing. Anthony, who helped persuade Wade to return this season, didn't play long this season before parting ways with Houston. So Wade gave his final one to him."I didn't get an opportunity to play against Melo this year and exchange jerseys with him," Wade said. "That was a missing piece out of this whole season, so everything worked out great for him being here, for me having an opportunity to give him my jersey."___UP NEXTHeat: The offseason.Nets: A first-round playoff matchup against the Philadelphia 76ers.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressORLANDO, Fla. — The stars have been stars in these playoffs.Kyrie Irving has Boston on the cusp of sweeping away Indiana Pacers. Kevin Durant, Stephen Curry and Golden State are coming off a game against the Los Angeles Clippers where the Warriors looked very much like the NBA champions again. Damian Lillard and Russell Westbrook are going at each other big-time in the Portland-Oklahoma City series.And then there's Pascal Siakam.Toronto's surprise story is no surprise anymore.Siakam has been perhaps the biggest breakout player in these playoffs, adding to his breakout season for the Raptors — who lead the Orlando Magic 2-1 in their first-round matchup thanks largely to the 25-year-old from Cameroon and his 24.3 points and 10 rebounds per game in the series.It's easy to forget that Siakam only started playing organized basketball seven years ago."Seriously?" Raptors guard Danny Green asked, unaware of his teammate's unique background.Seriously.Raptors coach Nick Nurse was amused by a recent question suggesting the Siakam was the team's third option offensively behind Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry. Nurse said the way Toronto sees it, Siakam — "Spicy P" is what they call him in Toronto, and the team sent out bottles of hot sauce with his face on the box to NBA awards voters as part of his Most Improved Player campaign — has really been the second option all season.At times in these playoffs, he's been the first option. In other words, a star is being born."Hey, look, he was terrific," Magic coach Steve Clifford said after Siakam's 30-point, 11-rebound effort in Game 3.There's four games on tap Sunday: Boston has a 3-0 lead and can become the first team to advance to the second round if it wins at Indiana. All three other series on the schedule — Golden State at the Los Angeles Clippers, Toronto at Orlando and Portland at Oklahoma City — have the road teams leading 2-1 and in position to all go home for potential closeout wins if they get victories on Sunday.Here's a look at Sunday's games:CELTICS AT PACERSCeltics lead 3-0. Game 4, 1 p.m. EDT, ABCNEED TO KNOW: Boston is seeking its first series sweep since 2011, when it rolled past the Knicks. The Celtics' other 4-0 sweeps came in 1959, 1980, 1981 and 1986. The Pacers are trying to avoid a fourth straight first-round exit and their second 4-0 loss in three years.KEEP AN EYE ON: Pacers starting forwards Bojan Bogdanovic and Thaddeus Young will be free agents this summer. Might this be their finales in Indiana?INJURY WATCH: Pacers star Victor Oladipo, out since January with a right knee injury, is expected to be at Game 4. He was going to fly in for Game 3, but was delayed by weather.PRESSURE IS ON: Boston. There's no pressure on Indiana; no one has come from 3-0 down to win a series, so the Pacers won't be expected to change that. Boston is playing for more rest before facing the Milwaukee-Detroit winner.WARRIORS AT CLIPPERSWarriors lead 2-1. Game 4, 3:30 p.m. EDT, ABCNEED TO KNOW: Golden State sent a very clear message in Game 3, blowing out Los Angeles by 27 with only one starter logging more than 30 minutes. And the Clippers have allowed a staggering 129.7 points in their last six games (going 2-4).KEEP AN EYE ON: The Clippers' first unit. Lou Williams and Montrezl Harrell are great off the bench and play starters' minutes, so this is somewhat misleading, but Doc Rivers can't have just one starter in double figures — as was the case in Game 2.INJURY WATCH: Andrew Bogut had eight points, 14 rebounds and five assists in his first game as DeMarcus Cousins' replacement for the Warriors.PRESSURE IS ON: Patrick Beverley. The Clippers' point guard is unquestionably tough, but four fouls and five shots in 18 minutes — like he had in Game 3 on Thursday — won't cut it again.RAPTORS AT MAGICRaptors lead 2-1. Game 4, 7 p.m. EDT, TNTNEED TO KNOW: Entering Saturday, three players in these playoffs — Stephen Curry, James Harden and Pascal Siakam — had a 30-point double-double. Curry and Harden made a combined $68 million this season. Siakam made about $1.5 million.KEEP AN EYE ON: Orlando guard Evan Fournier is 12 for 42 in this series and was 1 for 12 in Game 3. Among players with at least 10 shot attempts, there's been only five instances in Magic history where someone shot worse in a home game.INJURY WATCH: Bad news for Orlando: Toronto's Kawhi Leonard was ailing for Game 3 with an illness, which may explain some of his 6-for-19 shooting effort. He's expected to feel better Sunday.PRESSURE IS ON: Orlando's starters. Toronto opened on an 11-0 run (and 16-2) in Game 2 and a 10-0 run in Game 3. Another occurrence of that in Game 4 would be trouble.TRAIL BLAZERS AT THUNDERTrail Blazers lead 2-1. Game 4, 9:30 p.m. EDT, TNTNEED TO KNOW: Oklahoma City clearly got its swagger back in Game 3. And Portland needs to buck this history: The Trail Blazers are 0-7 in their last seven playoff games immediately following a loss.KEEP AN EYE ON: The Damian Lillard-Russell Westbrook matchup is the premier head-to-head tussle so far in these playoffs. Lillard's 25-point third quarter in Game 3 was phenomenal, but the Thunder held him to seven points in the other three quarters.INJURY WATCH: Thunder forward Paul George struggled with his shot again in Game 3 — a season-worst 3 for 16, raising questions about his troublesome right shoulder. But he got to the line 17 times, making 14, so he's clearly not shying from contact.PRESSURE IS ON: Portland's defense. Trail Blazer fouls sent the Thunder on the foul line 39 times in Game 3.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alex WongNathaniel Butler has been an N.B.A. senior photographer since 1984. Those were the days of shooting on film and developing photos in hotel rooms after games. Today, players text Butler as they arrive at the arena so he can be in position to capture a perfect arena entrance shot for them to post on Instagram.The job isn’t what it used to be.When Andrew D. Bernstein became an official N.B.A. photographer in 1986, he was continually thwarted in his attempts to get his camera into in-game huddles to capture the interactions between players and coaches. Pat Riley, who was the coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, made sure to obscure all viewpoints.Halfway through the season, Riley asked Bernstein why he wanted to be in the huddle. People want to see what’s happening on the inside, Bernstein told Riley, who agreed to give Bernstein a chance. If you screw up, Riley said, you are never coming back.More than three decades later, Bernstein is still photographing N.B.A. players, huddles and pretty much whatever he pleases as the league’s longest tenured senior photographer.Photographers have long played a critical role in shaping narratives in a league defined by faces and moments. The most iconic posters are the finished works of the photographers who position themselves along the baseline each game, often contorting their bodies and forgetting about personal comfort to get closer and take countless snaps, in hopes of capturing a masterpiece.In today’s N.B.A., they allow players to use those photographs as building blocks for their social media profiles. They have adapted to an ever-changing digital world that has presented new opportunities and a whole new set of challenges.On game day, Butler uses a combination of tethered remotes and custom phone apps to operate any number of cameras in an arena.He sends photographs to a team of editors in Secaucus, N.J., with the press of a button. In seconds, they can be published on the league’s official social media feeds and reach millions of people around the world.Despite the technological advances, shooting an N.B.A. game can be more difficult than one would think. “A basketball game is a complex situation,” said Bruce Ely, the lead photographer of the Portland Trail Blazers. “There are a lot of moving parts.”Like a fan’s arms waving across the frame just as Damian Lillard makes a 3-pointer. Or the leg of another player sneaking into the edge of the image, ruining a portrait. Another time, it might be a referee walking into a perfect shot.Despite the challenges, some N.B.A. photographers do not consider it their most difficult assignment. Nelson Campana, who photographs the Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team, regularly shoots weddings as well. The pressure of game night is nothing compared with the responsibility of chronicling a couple’s special day.“You have one night to make it right,” Campana said. “There’s a list of things you need to get, and you don’t get another chance. At a basketball game, you’re just hoping things happen.”Some nights, there is too much happening at the same time. As the Oklahoma City Thunder eliminated the San Antonio Spurs in the 2016 playoffs, Butler had to make a split-second decision about what to photograph at the buzzer. He focused on Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook embracing, and then got a shot of Durant with Tim Duncan. He stayed with Durant afterward, but that meant missing a chance to capture Duncan walking off an N.B.A. court for the final time.“Ideally,” Butler said, “I would like to be in two places at one time.”While some players enjoy being on the other side of these photographers’ lenses, others say it is an adjustment. Aaron Gordon of the Orlando Magic first remembers being in front of a camera as a high schooler being interviewed after winning a basketball tournament.“You have to live in a way where you’re O.K. with being seen,” Gordon said. “You’re always being watched these days.”Because so many photos are being taken, players have to accept that they can control only so much of what is shared online.“You want to nitpick every single picture,” said John Collins, a second-year forward with the Atlanta Hawks. “But it just can’t work that way. You can’t read everything about yourself and see every photo of yourself.”To take more control over their visual narratives on social media, players are working with photographers to shoot them outside basketball arenas.Cassy Athena is a professional photographer who has earned the trust of players around the league. Last season, at All-Star Weekend in Los Angeles, Athena followed Stephen Curry and his wife, Ayesha, for the entire weekend. She was also invited by Indiana Pacers guard Victor Oladipo to shoot him at New York Fashion Week in 2018.Athena says it takes time to convince certain players of the value of her photographs.“It’s not so much they don’t understand the importance of the moment,” she said. “It’s convincing them why they should share it with the world. When it clicks, you get guys who might not be the best N.B.A. player, but they use this” — meaning Instagram and professional photos — “to build their own brand and further their careers.”Older, more established players worry less about their online persona but more about how the images carry a nostalgic value as their careers wind down.“What photographers do may seem minute,” said Vince Carter, 42, who just ended his 21st season in the league. “But I’ve seen so many shots of the best moments of my career, and in some ways, they’ve helped me remember those moments.”Many of these iconic images can now be seen on the Instagram pages of the photographers themselves. Bernstein said he was the last guy dragged kicking and screaming into the social media era. He now enjoys posting classic pictures for Throwback Thursday.Butler adds watermarks to the photographs he posts on his feed because other accounts and publications will often publish them without giving him credit. But he recognizes the value of being online. “It opens you up to a whole other audience,” Butler said.The rise of social media accounts means there are now more photographers at N.B.A. games. Butler prefers to use a camera lens that does not require him to be right in the face of players to capture them up close. In the modern era, he has noticed a lot of camera phones being shoved into players’ faces.“There’s an etiquette that doesn’t exist anymore,” Butler said. “Not just in sports, but in society.”Even though photographers want to capture every moment, some also realize that there are boundaries. A few months ago, Kyrie Irving and Durant had a private conversation at All-Star Weekend in Charlotte, N.C., which was captured on film. It was circulated online, and many believed the two were discussing their heavily rumored plans to join the Knicks together this summer.“If I was a player, that would bother me,” Butler said. “You don’t have to document every second of their existence.”Bernstein had a similar decision to make more than 30 years ago, during the 1988 N.B.A. finals, when he walked through the Lakers’ locker room after a loss and found Magic Johnson and Michael Cooper with their uniforms on, dejected as the showers were running around them.It was a one-of-a-kind moment, but Bernstein opted against taking the photograph.“That was their time,” Bernstein said. “That didn’t need to be documented. I have that picture in my mind, and that’s enough.”An earlier version of this article described Nelson Campana’s job incorrectly. He photographs the Toronto Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team; he is not the team photographer.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinAt the end of a dizzying frenzy of trades in the N.B.A., featuring 24 deals in one week, Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans stayed put — for now.Yet there was plenty of action to make up for the lack of a Davis trade, with two of the four title hopefuls in the Eastern Conference making significant acquisitions before Thursday afternoon’s trade deadline, intensifying the race at the top of the East after Philadelphia’s big trade earlier this week.In the most significant deadline-day deals, Toronto acquired the former All-Star center Marc Gasol from Memphis, while Milwaukee imported the sharpshooting forward Nikola Mirotic from New Orleans as part of a three-team deal that also involved Detroit.Those moves capped a wild seven-day stretch that began with the Knicks’ blockbuster trade of Kristaps Porzingis to Dallas and also included the 76ers’ acquisition of Tobias Harris from the Los Angeles Clippers. Philadelphia’s big swing to land Harris, who joined a starting lineup that already featured Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Jimmy Butler and JJ Redick, seemingly forced the Raptors and Bucks, who entered Thursday as the East’s second- and first-place teams, to make their own moves.Milwaukee, Toronto and Philadelphia, along with the Boston Celtics, are jockeying to become the first LeBron James-less team to represent the East in the N.B.A. Finals since 2010.The Sixers, at fifth in the conference standings, didn’t stop at their Harris trade, though. Shortly before the deadline, they made a surprising deal with the Orlando Magic to send the wayward guard Markelle Fultz — whom they selected with the No. 1 overall pick in the 2017 draft — for the small forward Jonathon Simmons and two future draft picks (one in the first round, one in the second).The Celtics, who entered Thursday in third, came away from trade season simply relieved that Davis had not been traded to the Los Angeles Lakers. After a nervy two weeks, during which the Celtics could merely watch because of an obscure league rule, they will now get an opportunity to make a run at Davis in the off-season — although Davis is said to remain adamantly against signing a long-term contract with the Celtics should they trade for him.The Celtics were ineligible to make in-season trade offers for Davis with Kyrie Irving still on their roster, since both Davis and Irving are currently playing under maximum rookie-scale contract extensions; league rules allow teams to field only one such player.The Lakers, however, were unable to persuade the Pelicans to surrender Davis during the exclusive negotiating window they had to pursue him in the wake of Davis’s Jan. 28 request to be traded. The front offices of Los Angeles and New Orleans had no discussions about Davis on deadline day, according to two people familiar with the talks, after negotiations broke down Tuesday over what the Lakers deemed to be exorbitant demands from New Orleans.Late Thursday, Pelicans General Manager Dell Demps confirmed that Davis would continue playing for the team rather than be held out to guard against serious injury in advance of the trade sweepstakes that will likely emerge closer to the draft. Davis had not played since Jan. 18 because of a finger injury followed by the team not wanting to risk an injury. Demps confirmed he would be back on the court soon.“Ultimately, Anthony made it clear to us he wants to play and he gives our team the best opportunity to win games,” Demps said in a statement.The Lakers on Thursday were left trying to recover from the instability wrought by their pursuit of Davis as they seek to make the playoffs in James’s first season in Los Angeles. They entered Thursday’s play at 27-27, good for just 10th place in the West, after falling to a humiliating 42-point defeat in Indiana on Tuesday night. The one-sided loss, against the Victor Oladipo-less Pacers, left little doubt that the mounting trade speculation surrounding the likes of Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram and Kyle Kuzma was taking a toll on the Lakers.When the Lakers couldn’t acquire Davis on Thursday, they did trade the Croatian center Ivica Zubac — who was among the promising young players mentioned as potential parts of a trade for Davis — along with Michael Beasley to the Los Angeles Clippers in a deal for forward Mike Muscala. The move opened a roster spot for the Lakers that will allow them to seriously consider signing the former All-Star forward Carmelo Anthony, but Los Angeles will have plenty of other options on the free-agent market as various veterans become available following the deadline.As the Davis talk cooled on Thursday, much of the focus leading into the deadline centered on the Grizzlies, who wound up trading Gasol but keeping their point guard Mike Conley, who had drawn serious trade interest from the Utah Jazz and Detroit Pistons.Conley, 31, has two seasons, with a combined salary of $66 million, left on his contract after this one, which convinced the Grizzlies that trading him closer to the draft in June might yield a better offer. Gasol, though, can become a free agent at season’s end, so Memphis had to trade him now or risk losing one of the game’s best two-way players without compensation this summer.Charlotte and Memphis engaged in serious trade talks regarding Gasol earlier this week, which prompted the Spaniard, who has only played for the Grizzlies — and who played his high school ball in Memphis after the Grizzlies imported his brother Pau Gasol from Spain — to clean out his locker.But Toronto, perhaps motivated by what the Sixers did and by the Bucks’ move for Mirotic, packaged Jonas Valanciunas, Delon Wright, C.J. Miles and a second-round draft pick in 2024 to add Gasol to a team straining to convince the All-Star forward Kawhi Leonard to make a long-term commitment when he becomes a free agent July 1.The Bucks, like Toronto, managed to upgrade their roster without surrendering a first-round pick. By expanding a Thon Maker-for-Stanley Johnson trade it had hashed out earlier this week into a three-team deal, Milwaukee landed Mirotic for the primary cost of four second-round draft picks, which were sent to the Pelicans, who also came away with Johnson and the veteran Jason Smith.The Knicks did not make another deal, one week removed from the Porzingis blockbuster that got the trade madness started, but they did set two veterans free to find deals on the postseason market. The outspoken forward Enes Kanter was waived, as was the newly acquired Wes Matthews — with Matthews immediately coming to terms with Indiana to join the Pacers after he clears waivers.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — Malik Monk is learning. It might be his favorite word. He says he is learning from Tony Parker and Kemba Walker. He says he is learning to defend “grown men” who know the tricks of the trade. He says he is learning to vary his pace when he comes off the bench for the Charlotte Hornets, because he does not need to dial it up to flambé all the time.“You have to know when to speed up and when to slow down,” said Monk, a 6-foot-3 shooting guard, “and I’m still learning.”Monk, 20, did not anticipate that his first two seasons in the N.B.A. would be so challenging, not after he was the Southeastern Conference player of the year in his only season at Kentucky and the 11th overall pick in the 2017 draft. He is no less confident in his abilities than he once was, but he is definitely less naïve.“I thought it would be way smoother,” he said in an interview on Tuesday before the Hornets played the Clippers at Staples Center. “I thought I was going to play right away when I first got here. I thought I was going to play right away this year, too. But it’s been a lot of ups and downs.”His growing pains are not unique to second-year players. But there may be more organizational urgency with Monk given the Hornets’ uncertain future. Walker, their All-Star point guard and the face of the franchise, is due for unrestricted free agency this summer, and he needs more talent around him for the Hornets to be a contender. Perhaps Monk will be a part of that equation, but the clock is ticking — and it still requires some imagination to envision the player he could become.Monk, though, offers flashes, and some of them came against the Clippers: the 36 seconds of game action he required to take and make his first 3-pointer, his running floater on the following possession, even his pyrotechnic offense in garbage time. He finished with 24 points in 21 minutes in a 128-109 loss.“He’s an explosive scorer,” said James Borrego, the team’s first-year coach.As the Hornets (19-21) grapple for a playoff spot, Monk is averaging 10.8 points in 18.9 minutes a game while shooting 39.7 percent from the field. While he needs to become a more proficient shooter, he has more pronounced limitations on defense, where he is on the small side for a shooting guard and lacks the savvy of many of the (bigger, more experienced) players he is trying to defend.“Man, if you’re a second late, it’s over with,” Monk said. “You can recover in college. In college, you can hide in a zone, too. But here, you get exposed. Everybody’s so good.”At Kentucky, Monk teamed up in the backcourt with De’Aaron Fox, another immensely talented freshman who declared for the 2017 draft. Fox went fifth to the Sacramento Kings, and he has excelled this season, averaging 18 points and 7.3 assists a game while shooting 47.4 percent from the field. He starts. He plays loads of minutes. And he gets a lot of attention.Monk and Fox are on a group chat with a couple of other former teammates at Kentucky, Monk said, and they message one another all the time. Monk roots for Fox — “I tell him, ‘Keep killing, Fox,’ ” Monk said — but he cannot help noting the opportunity that Fox has gotten, and how much he has made of it.“If you get down on yourself, that’s going to mess everything up,” Monk said. “So I just try to stay positive. You have to be patient, man. Patience.”Borrego benched Monk for two games last month — the coach was frustrated with the team’s defense — but said on Tuesday that he was pleased with Monk’s progress.“He’s just got to be more consistent on the defensive end,” Borrego said, “and we’re seeing that growth.”Monk’s minutes, though, have been sporadic — much as they were last season under Steve Clifford, who now coaches the Orlando Magic — and he said he was learning to adapt. Everyone wants to start, he said, but maybe he was meant to come off the bench and develop into an elite scorer like Lou Williams or Jamal Crawford, two players who have turned their reserve roles into art forms. Or maybe, Monk said, his career will take a different turn.“There are always teams watching,” Monk said. “So, I mean, if this is not your spot, it might be somewhere else, and there’s always somebody watching — and it’s probably somebody that likes you. So you’ve got to go out there and do stuff for you and for your team. If you do both of those things together, you’ll be all right.”Asked if he was happy in Charlotte, Monk said: “I’m playing basketball. So, yeah, I’m learning, and I’m watching the best every night. If you’re not happy doing this, I don’t know why you came to the N.B.A. So me playing or not, I’m still going to learn, I’m still going to smile, and I’m still going to be who I am. So I’m glad I’m in this situation.”In their locker room at Spectrum Center, where the Hornets play their home games, Monk sits between Parker, already a legend from his days with the San Antonio Spurs, and Marvin Williams, a power forward in his 14th season. Both are consummate pros, and Monk suspects that the locker room layout was no accident.“He’s very coachable,” Williams said. “He wants to learn, and he wants to be really good.”Borrego described Parker as something of a big brother to Monk whenever they are on the court together with the team’s second unit.“A lot of times Malik feels like a wild stallion,” Borrego said, “and Tony’s out there trying to keep him calmed down.”For Monk, the lessons never stop. Michael Jordan, the team’s owner, delivered another last month when he smacked Monk on the head for prematurely celebrating a win against the Detroit Pistons. Jordan was being playful. Monk clearly cared, and that alone is worth something.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points. At age 39, he became the oldest player ever to reach 50 in an NBA game.Heat 122, 76ers 99Dwyane Wade, playing the final home game of his NBA career, scored 30 points to lead Miami over Philadelphia.Wade made 10 of 23 shots, including 4 of 10 on attempts from beyond the arc. It was his second-highest scoring game of the season. But it was a bittersweet night for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention earlier in the evening when the Detroit Pistons rallied from a 22-point deficit to defeat the Memphis Grizzlies.Philadelphia, which has already clinched the third seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs, rested two of its stars: Joel Embiid, who was listed as having a knee injury, and JJ Redick (back).Warriors 112, Pelicans 103DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds against his former team as visiting Golden State defeated New Orleans.After clinching home-court advantage throughout the Western Conference playoffs on Sunday, the Warriors had Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson, Andre Iguodala and Andrew Bogut among their inactive players. Stephen Curry left for game after scoring five points in nine minutes in what the Warriors called "a precaution" after he sustained a mild foot sprain.Jahlil Okafor scored 30 points to lead the short-handed Pelicans, who dressed just eight players and finished the season 33-49.Raptors 120, Timberwolves 100Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points as visiting Toronto completed its regular-season schedule with a victory over Minnesota.The Raptors (58-24) secured the second-best record in the Eastern Conference with the win, behind only the Milwaukee Bucks (60-21), who play their final game Wednesday.Fred VanVleet added 16 points for the Raptors, Chris Boucher added career bests with 15 points and 13 rebounds, and Pascal Siakam and Norman Powell each scored 10 points. Gorgui Dieng and Andrew Wiggins each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves.Jazz 118, Nuggets 108Donovan Mitchell matched his career best of 46 points, and Utah posted a victory over Denver in Salt Lake City.Rudy Gobert added 20 points and 10 rebounds as Utah notched its ninth straight home win against Denver. Utah locked up the No. 5 seed for the Western Conference playoffs.Malik Beasley scored 25 points on 9-of-13 shooting for the Nuggets, who have lost four of their past six games and are a half-game ahead of Houston after the Rockets fell to the Oklahoma City Thunder on Tuesday.Trail Blazers 104, Lakers 101Instead of quietly sneaking into the offseason after losing its season finale to playoff-bound Portland, Los Angeles made some noise when Magic Johnson announced his resignation as president of basketball operations for the team.The game still meant something for Portland, though, and the Trail Blazers clinched home-court advantage in the first round of the Western Conference playoffs when Maurice Harkless made a 3-pointer at the buzzer for a win. The Trail Blazers can overtake the Rockets on a tiebreaker to finish third in the West with a win against the visiting Sacramento Kings on Wednesday.Harkless, who left the previous game with left hip tightness, finished with 26 points. Kentavious Caldwell-Pope had 32 points and eight assists for the Lakers, who finished with 37 wins -- two more than last season.Thunder 112, Rockets 111Russell Westbrook scored 29 points, but it was Paul George's corner 3-pointer with 1.8 seconds left that sent Oklahoma City to a home win over Houston.Oklahoma City trailed by 14 early in the fourth quarter and by four in the final minute before Westbrook's and George's heroics.James Harden made his first 12 free throws in the game but with less than 10 seconds left and Houston on top 111-109, he missed one, giving the Thunder a chance to tie or take the lead. Westbrook barreled up the court, briefly handing the ball off to Steven Adams near midcourt before getting the ball and firing it to George in the corner for what proved to be the game-winner.Celtics 116, Wizards 100Terry Rozier led seven Boston players in double figures with 21 points as his team closed out the regular season with a win over host Washington.The Celtics rallied from a 13-point, third-quarter deficit for their sixth win in eight games. Boston, which played without Marcus Smart, Jayson Tatum, Kyrie Irving, Al Horford, Marcus Morris, Aron Baynes and Gordon Hayward, will be the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs.Semi Ojeleye, Brad Wanamaker and RJ Hunter had 17 points apiece for Boston, which outscored Washington 27-15 in the fourth quarter. Tomas Satoransky led the Wizards with 19 points, and Bradley Beal scored 16 points in 16 minutes. Beal became the first person in franchise history to finish a season averaging at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists per game.Pistons 100, Grizzlies 93Andre Drummond scored 20 points and grabbed 17 rebounds, and Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to defeat visiting Memphis.Despite winning, the Pistons were unable to clinch the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. The Charlotte Hornets beat the Cleveland Cavaliers and remain one game behind Detroit heading into Wednesday night's final regular-season games. The Pistons finish against the Knicks at New York while the Hornets host the Orlando Magic.The Pistons, who trailed by 22 in the second quarter, climbed all the way back and took an 85-83 lead on Ish Smith's jumper just moments after his 3-pointer tied the score at 83-all. Smith finished with 22 points off the bench, and Luke Kennard added 15 for Detroit.Hornets 124, Cavaliers 97Kemba Walker and Jeremy Lamb scored 23 points apiece, and Charlotte kept its playoff hopes alive with a victory over host Cleveland.The Hornets led by 12 points in the first half and then pushed the lead all the way to 27 in the fourth quarter, winning their fourth straight and eighth in their past 11 games. They hit a season-high 22 3-pointers on 44 attempts and shot 57.7 percent from the field.Miles Bridges and Dwayne Bacon added 18 points apiece for the Hornets. Frank Kaminsky scored 14 and Devonte Graham had 10. Collin Sexton led the Cavs with 18 points.Knicks 96, Bulls 86Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points and Kevin Knox and Luke Kornet each notched double-doubles to lead New York past host Chicago.Knox had 17 points and 10 rebounds, Kornet chipped in 12 points and 13 rebounds and Damyean Dotson added 12 points for the Knicks (17-64), who are already assured of the NBA's worst record this season. They can do no worse than tie the franchise record for fewest wins in a regular season, set in 2014-15.The Bulls closed the home portion of their schedule with a 9-32 record, setting a franchise record for home futility. The 2000-01 team held the previous club standard for fewest home victories with 10.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaDENVER — The Denver Nuggets’ worst loss of the season was less than 48 hours old when Tim Connelly, the team’s president of basketball operations, found himself courtside before a game against the Chicago Bulls assessing some lessons of the defeat.“A loss is never a positive,” Connelly said, “but we have to be realistic about where we stand. We’ve done nothing, and that team has done everything several times over.”He was referring to the Golden State Warriors, a superstar collective that has demolished its share of opponents in recent years. But what the Warriors did to the Nuggets one night last week was particularly gruesome, in part because Denver had entered the game with a slim lead over Golden State in the N.B.A.’s Western Conference standings.But then, on Jan. 15, in front of a briefly enthusiastic crowd here, the Warriors scored 51 points in the first quarter and sailed to a 142-111 victory that sent a message to everyone on the opposing bench, inside the building and across the league: We are not going anywhere.It was, for one night at least, illustrative of the gulf that still exists between the Warriors and the rest of the N.B.A. While Golden State’s dominance had led many to despair, the Nuggets entered the game ahead in the standings and hopeful that they were bridging the gap. They came out of it understanding that there is still work to be done.“We got a little comfortable,” Nuggets forward Paul Millsap said. “It was a humbling experience for us.”Still, these are heady times for the Nuggets. They are a colorful crew led by Nikola Jokic, a 23-year-old center from Serbia and former second-round pick who facilitates the offense from the high post. In a league full of chiseled gods, Jokic has the dimensions of a melting iceberg. But at 7 feet and 250 pounds, he is a gifted passer and scorer, and he appears bound for his first All-Star Game.His background — unsung prospect, semi-overlooked — is representative of the roster as a whole. Just one player in the team’s regular rotation, the 21-year-old point guard Jamal Murray, was a top-10 lottery pick.Consider Torrey Craig, a 28-year-old forward who has become a full-time starter. Craig went undrafted out of South Carolina Upstate and was plying his trade for the Gold Coast Rollers of the Queensland Basketball League, a semipro circuit in Australia, before he signed a two-way deal with the Nuggets in 2017.“It makes us all dogs,” the shooting guard Malik Beasley said, “because we’ve been underrated our whole lives.”Millsap, 33 and a former second-round pick himself, sees similarities between the Nuggets and one of his former teams, the Atlanta Hawks, a team with little star power that still finished with the best record in the East in 2015.“Egoless guys,” Millsap said. “Guys who don’t care about getting the credit. Guys who go out there and play the game the right way, and I think that’s where these two teams are very similar. I do think this team is a lot more talented than that team. But that team used every inch of talent and every inch of ability to get things done.”Left unsaid: The Nuggets are not using every inch of their talent — not yet, anyway. In the jargon of the game, they have untapped potential, and this is understandable. The Nuggets are as inexperienced as they are precocious. Seven of the team’s top 11 players right now are 24 or younger, and that does not even include Michael Porter Jr., a 20-year-old forward and the 14th pick of the 2018 draft who is not expected to play this season after undergoing back surgery.Coach Michael Malone has consistently praised his players’ work ethic — effort, he said, is not a problem — but he does want them to be more diligent about their mental preparation.“Know who the hell you’re guarding,” Malone said, adding: “I think the guys on our roster — most teams probably have this issue, where they show up to the game, like, ‘Who are we playing tonight?’ And they haven’t done their work, which to me is like a cardinal sin. So we have to do a better job of understanding: Who am I playing? What are his tendencies? And how can I take those away?”In the locker room before the Bulls game, Malone reiterated how much work his staff puts into scouting reports before asking his players what they planned to offer that night in return. Jokic, Malone later recalled, told him he would be aggressive. Murray said he would play hard. As far as pregame chalk talks go, it was boilerplate stuff. But the conversation had added import given the events of the week.“This is part of our journey,” Malone said.Malone got a keener sense of that process from 2011 to 2013, as an assistant with the Warriors under Mark Jackson when Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson were young players learning how to be pros. The Warriors went 23-43 in a lockout-shortened season. But by the 2012-13 season, Curry and Thompson were forming winning habits. Malone recalled a seven-game road trip when the Warriors went 6-1, with their only loss coming against the Orlando Magic after the team spent an extra night in Miami (and perhaps that was no coincidence). But the trip was otherwise an unqualified success.“I think that’s when we, as a team and as an organization said, ‘Man, we have a chance to be pretty good,’ ” he said.The Nuggets have had moments like that this season — beating the Raptors in Toronto on Dec. 3 was a big deal — but they still have a lot of work ahead, Malone said.“We’re a young team that is trying to become a playoff team, and once you become a playoff team, you hope to become a championship team,” Malone said. “You can’t skip steps.”Since Malone was hired by the Nuggets in 2015, they have improved each season, from 33 wins in 2015-16, to 40 wins in 2016-17, to 46 wins last season, when they narrowly missed the playoffs. Malone signed a two-year extension over the summer, and the Nuggets are now on a pace to win 56 games. Their last playoff appearance came in 2013.No less an eminence than Kevin Durant, who, to be fair, joined the Warriors a year after they had won their first championship of the Curry/Thompson era, praised the Nuggets organization.“Continuity,” Durant said. “You don’t fire your coach after a losing season. You’re patient with him. You’re patient with your young players. You let them make mistakes, let them grow.”In the wake of Denver’s loss to the Warriors last week, Malone was pleased to see a renewed commitment to defense in wins over the Bulls and the Cleveland Cavaliers. It was already clear that the team’s loss to Golden State had been something of a formative experience.“It was probably the best thing that could have happened to us,” Millsap said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported by2019 N.B.A. Playoff PreviewThere are intriguing teams in both conferences, and there should be some classic games, but Golden State is positioned to three-peat. By Benjamin HoffmanThe Golden State Warriors followed up their second consecutive N.B.A. title — and third in four years — by adding DeMarcus Cousins, the four-time All-Star. It became commonplace to declare that they had ruined the league by removing any suspense to the season. A starting lineup of five All-Stars, two of which are former recipients of the Most Valuable Player Award, was just too much.There was palace intrigue, however. Kevin Durant and Draymond Green feuded in public, Cousins was routinely exposed on defense, Klay Thompson had a rough start and Stephen Curry’s shot seemed to fail him before he began wearing contacts on the court — in a scary acknowledgment that he had struggled with his vision for years even as he established himself as the deadliest 3-point shooter in N.B.A. history. The drama — which many on the team have said is actually less than they dealt with last season — led to long stretches in which the Warriors seemed positively pedestrian. Perhaps most relevant to these playoffs, it led to them feuding with officials, and Durant and Green topping the N.B.A. in technical fouls.It has widely been assumed that this will be Durant’s last season in Golden State. The quirks of the salary cap mean Cousins is almost assuredly gone as well. Shaun Livingston is likely to retire, Andre Iguodala can’t outrun time forever, Green’s long-term status is tenuous and Thompson is about to be a free agent. This could indeed be the last run of the Warriors dynasty.Despite all of that ado, there is no reason to believe the Warriors can’t flip the switch and march to the finals, just like they did last year. The only potential obstacles seem to be a significant injury — the team has said an ankle injury to Curry is not serious, but that situation should be monitored — or a boredom with domination so deep that they loaf their way to a shocking upset.With Cousins and Durant likely hoping to add a ring on their way out the door, focus shouldn’t be a problem. But first they will have to get there. A preview of all eight first-round series shows there is plenty to watch and enjoy, even if Golden State is still “ruining” everything — and ends up the champion once again.Western ConferenceGame 1: Saturday, 8 p.m., ABCThe Clippers (48-34) were the N.B.A.’s most surprising team all season. The Lob City years may have been defined by a top-heavy roster of stars, but this group was far more anonymous and its talent stretched further along the bench. Led for most of the season by Tobias Harris, Danilo Gallinari and the bench duo of Montrezl Harrell and Lou Williams — who this season became the N.B.A.’s career leader in points off the bench — they coasted along, winning game after game in which they were counted out. Even the Clippers’ management did not seem to believe in them, trading Harris and Boban Marjanovic to Philadelphia in February. The collapse that everyone predicted never happened, and the Clippers easily held off Sacramento for the West’s final playoff spot.But this series is where the fun story ends. An overachieving team can be exhilarating to watch, and there were matchups where the Clippers might have surprised someone. But no matter how bored the Warriors (57-25) seemed this season, a loss in this series would overtake the 2007 We Believe Warriors’ upset of the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks as the most shocking first-round loss in recent history. Golden State is just too deep and too talented for the plucky Clippers to stand a chance.Pick: Warriors in 4Game 1: Saturday, 10:30 p.m., ESPNDon’t let their record fool you — the Nuggets (54-28) are broken, and it doesn’t take much to find the date of the fracture: Jan. 15. That day, Denver, which came into the game brimming with confidence as the No. 1 team in the West, got pulverized by the Warriors. The Nuggets allowed a record 51 first quarter points and lost, 142-111.The Nuggets went 25-14 the rest of the way — not all that different than the 29-13 record they had going into the game — but any notion that they had emerged as a true contender was officially scuttled. Two more losses to Golden State helped drive that point home, as did a 5-6 record over the team’s last 11 games. The Nuggets barely held onto the No. 2 seed, nearly losing it to Houston on the final day of the season.An optimist would point out that Denver keeping the No. 2 seed means it is uniquely positioned for a trip to the conference finals, as its win on Wednesday kept the Nuggets away from Golden State for the first two rounds. If the Nuggets can get past the Spurs (48-34), they would draw the winner of Portland-Oklahoma City. Nikola Jokic is a truly special player, and will get a chance to shine on a national stage at some point, but even if the Nuggets are more talented than San Antonio, it is hard to believe that Coach Gregg Popovich can’t come up with a way to exploit Denver’s weaknesses and advance in what could be one of the more closely matched series.Pick: Spurs in 6Game 1: Sunday, 3:30 p.m., ABCWatching the video of the brutal leg injury sustained by Jusuf Nurkic last month is not recommended, but understanding its impact is fairly important in these playoffs. Nurkic, the Bosnian center, was in the middle of a career-defining season but will now miss the playoffs. He helped transform the Trail Blazers (53-29), from a team known for its transcendent guard combo — Damian Lillard and C.J. McCollum — into a team that seemed dangerous against any opponent in the West besides Golden State.Enes Kanter, who signed with the team in February after being bought out by the Knicks, can replace a fair amount of Nurkic’s offense and rebounding, but the defensive drop-off could hardly be more extreme. That could leave McCollum in the unenviable position of having this notorious moment on Twitter revisited:With Nurkic, the Blazers likely would have been heavy favorites against the Thunder (49-33), but as it stands they seem outmatched by the combination of Paul George, Steven Adams and Russell Westbrook.Oklahoma City is far from perfect. George’s play plummeted after injuries in the second half, and Westbrook continued his streak of seasons in which he’s averaged a triple-double but did so with a horrific shooting line of 42.8 percent from the field, 29.0 percent on 3-pointers and 65.6 percent from the free-throw line. Adams, though, should be able to swallow his good friend Kanter alive on both ends of the court, and the likelihood that George rises to the occasion should have Portland exiting in the first round for the third year in a row. This year, though, they should win at least one or two games. For Jennifer.Pick: Thunder in 6Game 1: Sunday, 9:30 p.m., TNTSometimes you can win by losing. The Rockets (53-29) went into the season’s final day with a shot at the No. 2 seed in the West, but Denver’s win left Houston at No. 4. The beauty of that, should the Rockets survive a first-round matchup against Rudy Gobert and the Jazz (50-32), is that it would set them up for a face-off against Golden State in the second round, with James Harden as fresh as possible and with a far better chance of Chris Paul being healthy.But first Houston will have to deal with Utah, a team that gets elite defense from Gobert — the team was the second-most efficient defense in the N.B.A., allowing 105.7 points per 100 possessions, according to Basketball Reference — and enough offense from Donovan Mitchell to stay competitive. This Rockets team is far different from the defensive powerhouse that nearly knocked off Golden State in the conference finals last year. Trevor Ariza and Luc Mbah a Moute are missed on that end of the court, but Houston managed to rise out of an early funk thanks to Harden proving he had an even higher gear than the one he displayed en route to winning M.V.P. last season. Harden’s average of 36.13 points a game was the highest by any player in N.B.A. history other than Wilt Chamberlain and Michael Jordan. And while he may not have averaged a triple-double like Westbrook, he scored 30-plus in 32 consecutive games and had two triple-doubles in which he scored 50 or more points. He now owns five of the 14 50-point triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.Pick: Rockets in 5Eastern ConferenceGame 1: Sunday, 7 p.m., TNTThe Bucks (60-22) were supposed to be good. But they weren’t supposed to be this good. The season began with debates about which team in the East would step into the vacuum created by LeBron James’s departure to the Western Conference: Boston, Philadelphia or Toronto. Surprise, surprise, surprise.The stories about the team, and the immediate vicinity of the basket, were dominated by Giannis Antetokounmpo, the favorite to be named M.V.P. over Harden, but Milwaukee was not a one-man show. Khris Middleton was an All-Star, Eric Bledsoe seemed content to be a third option, and Brook Lopez, the lumbering 7-footer, continued his reinvention into perhaps the N.B.A.’s least likely 3-point specialist — and one of its most effective perimeter defenders.A tear in the plantar fascia of Malcolm Brogdon’s right foot has the Bucks at slightly less than full strength for the first round, but the Pistons (41-41) barely qualified for the playoffs, and other than a fairly special season from Blake Griffin they offer little reason for any team to be afraid.Pick: Bucks in 4Game 1: Saturday, 5 p.m., ESPNThe Raptors (58-24) were not expected to keep up with Boston or Philadelphia — even by this writer’s predictions — but they managed to jell around Kawhi Leonard faster than many predicted. Leonard’s health issues, while not entirely a thing of the past, did not stop Toronto from easily winning the most difficult division in the N.B.A.Credit should go not just to Leonard, but also to Coach Nick Nurse, who did a solid job of competing night in and night out; to Kyle Lowry, who moved on, reluctantly, from DeMar DeRozan; and most of all to Pascal Siakam, who, in one season, went from being viewed as a fun role player to being called a future superstar.That Toronto is a heavy favorite is a bummer for the Magic (42-40), a team that emerged from years of being atrocious and put on a good show nearly every night. The leap to All-Star by Nikola Vucevic was inspiring, and the athleticism on the roster can lead to some truly sensational highlights. Yes, the Raptors should win, and it’s entirely possible that they will sweep, but Orlando is one of the few teams that could get away with an attitude of just being happy to be there.Pick: Raptors in 5Game 1: Saturday, 2:30 p.m., ESPNThe 76ers (51-31) likely have the most talented starting five outside of Golden State. Joel Embiid is a system unto himself — he’d prefer to be called a Process; Ben Simmons can do anything except shoot 3-pointers; and Jimmy Butler is not your friend, but he is a terrific all-around player. That the Sixers can complement those three with a pair of dead-eyed shooters like Tobias Harris and J.J. Redick almost seems greedy.The price, it seems, is depth and cohesiveness: The starting five has managed just 161.1 minutes on the court together over 10 games. While Boban Marjanovic is a lot of fun coming off the bench — provided you’re not the one guarding him — there isn’t a lot else to speak about among the Sixers’ reserves. The Nets (42-40), meanwhile, have depth in spades. D’Angelo Russell took the leap to All-Star-level this season; Spencer Dinwiddie is one of the league’s top sixth men; Jarrett Allen is a slender but formidable brick wall in front of the basket; and you never know when Caris LeVert and Joe Harris will dominate. Coach Kenny Atkinson managed to have 13 players average more than 17 minutes a game this season by mixing and matching his lineups (and by dealing with injuries). The 76ers are rightfully the favorite. At any given point in a game they could claim to have the five most talented players on the court — with the possible exception of Russell over Redick and/or Harris. But a significant injury to any one of Philadelphia’s stars — always a concern with this team’s injury history — could be a death knell.Pick: 76ers in 5Game 1: Sunday, 1 p.m., TNTWhat to make of the Celtics? The team made a run to the conference finals last season with a spark but without Kyrie Irving or Gordon Hayward, and then after getting them back from injury this year they were flat for much of the season. It’s not that they didn’t end up with good numbers — they were a top-10 team in offensive and defensive efficiency — but they didn’t scare anyone because of their inconsistency.The Warriors proved last year that a team can meander through a regular season and then wake up in the playoffs. This team may not be quite as talented as Golden State, but the seed for a similar transformation does appear to be present should Coach Brad Stevens find a way to shake up his players and get them properly motivated.If Boston thinks it can loaf its way through this series, however, it will be sadly mistaken. The Pacers (48-34) survived losing their best player, Victor Oladipo, to a season-ending knee injury and finished with the same record they had last year while showing small improvement in their efficiency on both ends of the court.Boston is so talented that it has to be the favorite, but this is the series with the widest range of possibilities. Pick: Celtics in 6Harvey Araton — @AratonHjWest: Rockets over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: RocketsJonah Bromwich — @JonesiemanWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsScott Cacciola — @ScottCacciolaWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: BucksSopan Deb — @SopanDebWest: Warriors over Nuggets | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman — @BenHoffmanNYTWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsShauntel Lowe — @ShauntelLoweWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsMarc Stein — @TheSteinLineWest: Warriors over Thunder | East: Raptors over BucksChampions: WarriorsKelly Whiteside — @KellyWhitesideWest: Warriors over Blazers | East: Bucks over RaptorsChampions: WarriorsBenjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Marc SteinWith all of the trade drama surrounding Anthony Davis and Kristaps Porzingis, the N.B.A. intruded on the N.F.L.’s run-up to the Super Bowl as we have not seen since Kobe Bryant scored 81 points on football’s so-called Championship Sunday in 2006.Now that the Super Bowl is over and even more of North America’s sporting consciousness is there to be seized by professional basketball’s tireless headline-makers, here is our best advice: Buckle up.What follows is a by-the-numbers look at what the N.B.A.’s 73rd season has served up so far — and what the next five months hold.Through Sunday’s games, only the Milwaukee Bucks were on a 60-win pace. The Bucks’ Eastern Conference-leading record of 38-13 projects to a 61-win campaign — which could keep this season from being the league’s first since 2000-1 without a 60-win club.There are realistically 11 teams battling for the Western Conference’s eight playoff spots, after the new calendar year began with 14 teams in the conference — all but Phoenix — in the race. Dallas, New Orleans and Memphis have dropped off in January, prompting all three teams to focus more on trades than the standings.The consensus top three in the Most Valuable Player Award race coming out of Super Bowl weekend are Milwaukee’s Giannis Antetokounmpo, Houston’s James Harden and Denver’s Nikola Jokic. According to the Basketball-Reference.com M.V.P. Award Tracker, Antetokounmpo awoke Sunday with a 37.8 percent chance of winning — far ahead of Harden’s 21.1 percent.Harden has scored at least 30 points in 26 consecutive games, good for the third-longest such streak in N.B.A. annals behind Wilt Chamberlain’s streaks of 65 and 31.The league’s trade deadline (Thursday at 3 p.m. Eastern) is three days away. This is the second season since 1978-79 (as far back as reliable N.B.A. record-keeping goes) that the deadline falls before the All-Star Game.The New Orleans Pelicans have made two trips to the playoffs — winning only one series — in Davis’s first six seasons with the team. Davis requested a trade on Jan. 28.It took 54 days for the Minnesota Timberwolves to find a trade they liked for Jimmy Butler after Butler’s request to be dealt became public Sept. 18. Butler was snubbed by East coaches in All-Star voting, but the potential ceiling for Philadelphia’s rugged new star threesome was evident Thursday night at Golden State, when Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Butler and Company brought a halt to the longest winning streak of the season — after the Warriors had won 11 in a row.Minnesota is 21-18 since the trade that sent Butler and Justin Patton to Philadelphia on Nov. 12 — and 6-6 since firing Tom Thibodeau, the coach/team president who made it, on Jan. 6. Ryan Saunders, Thibodeau’s 32-year-old replacement, has many admirers around the league, but the Wolves are a long way from convincing skeptics that the deal (to bring in Robert Covington, Dario Saric, Jerryd Bayless and a 2022 second-round pick) was sufficient for a player of Butler’s caliber.Thibodeau is one of three coaches to be fired this season — after nine coaching changes in the off-season. The other coaches to lose their jobs since opening night: Cleveland’s Tyronn Lue and Chicago’s Fred Hoiberg.There were 20 teams, entering Sunday’s play, attempting at least 30 3-pointers a game. This is poised to become the first season in N.B.A. history that the leaguewide average per game (31.4) will finish in the 30s.With coaches calling for more 3-pointers than ever before and greenlighting shots earlier and earlier in the 24-second shot clock — along with a new rule that resets the shot clock at 14 seconds on offensive rebounds — teams are averaging 100.0 possessions per 48 minutes leaguewide. The last N.B.A. season in which that figure finished in triple digits was 1988-89 (100.6).Milwaukee’s Khris Middleton, Orlando’s Nikola Vucevic, Philadelphia’s Simmons and Denver’s Jokic will make their All-Star Game debuts Feb. 17 in Charlotte, N.C. The All-Star player draft, in which the captains LeBron James and Antetokounmpo will fill out 13-man rosters by picking players playground-style, is Thursday at 7 p.m. — just four hours after the trade deadline passes. (D’Angelo Russell of the Nets, who was named later as a replacement for Indiana’s Victor Oladipo, who is injured, will also be making his All-Star debut this year.)Four teams are in contention for the league’s worst record: Phoenix (11-43), Cleveland (11-42), Chicago (12-41) and, of course, the Knicks (10-42). The teams that finish in the bottom three will share a 14 percent chance of landing the No. 1 overall pick in the draft in June in the first year of the league’s revised lottery system.San Antonio sits a surprising fifth in the West, at 32-22, in its first season since trading Kawhi Leonard to Toronto in July. The Spurs are bidding for a record 22nd consecutive playoff berth, a streak that began in Gregg Popovich’s first full season as Spurs coach in 1997-98.At 27-25, Sacramento is on course to post its first winning record since the 2005-6 season. But the Kings will have to leapfrog at least two teams to stop the league’s longest playoff drought (12 seasons). The Suns (nine seasons) and the Orlando Magic (seven) are on course to extend their own playoff droughts.The Lakers’ playoff drought will hit a hard-to-believe six seasons in a row if James cannot save Los Angeles over its final 29 games. James just missed 17 consecutive games with a strained groin — the longest injury absence of his pro career — and is at risk for missing the postseason for the first time since his second N.B.A. season, in 2004-5.Carmelo Anthony finally became an unrestricted free agent on Sunday after clearing waivers nearly three months after the Houston Rockets sent him away in November after just 10 games together. The Rockets traded Anthony to Chicago on Jan. 21; the Bulls, who needed a roster spot, waived him Friday without him spending a single second with the team.In the seven games Golden State has deployed a lineup of DeMarcus Cousins, Stephen Curry, Kevin Durant, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green, that group is averaging 127.1 points per 100 possessions in 54 minutes. Call it a small but ominous sample size.Oddsmakers in Las Vegas have the Warriors as overwhelming favorites to win their third consecutive championship and fourth in five seasons. According to ActionNetwork.com, Golden State is -225 to win it all, meaning that you would have to bet $225 to win $100. Boston, Milwaukee and Toronto are next in line at +1,000, meaning that a $100 bet would win $1,000 if any of those teams won the title.One scribe’s ranking of the top 10 players who could be unrestricted free agents July 1: Durant, Leonard, Kyrie Irving, Thompson, Butler, Kemba Walker, Cousins, Middleton, Marc Gasol and Tobias Harris.The N.B.A. playoffs start April 13.Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressJaylen Brown scored 23 points and Kyrie Irving added 19 to help the Boston Celtics beat the host Indiana Pacers, 104-96, on Friday night for a 3-0 lead in the first-round Eastern Conference series.Irving also had 10 assists and 5 rebounds, and Jayson Tatum had 18 points and 7 rebounds for the Celtics, who can eliminate the Pacers on Sunday in Indianapolis.“We’re all making sure we’re giving each other confidence and doing the little things to ensure we win,” Irving said. “When you have that type of camaraderie, executing is a lot easier. Now that the stakes are higher, we’re settling into who we want to be.”Tyreke Evans matched his career playoff high with 19 points for Indiana, and Bojan Bogdanovic had 15, not enough to prevent the Pacers from losing their sixth straight to Boston in the regular season and the playoffs.The Celtics’ defense again turned the game, allowing just 12 points in the third quarter, as they put the Pacers on the brink of their second series sweep in three years.Indiana had erased a 15-point first half deficit to take a 61-59 halftime lead, and Myles Turner opened the third with a 3-pointer for the Pacers. But Boston charged back with 8 straight points to retake the lead and closed the quarter with a 9-2 run to make it 80-73.Boston gave up 8 points in the third quarter of Game 1 and 12 in the fourth quarter of Game 2.RAPTORS 98, MAGIC 83 Pascal Siakam had 30 points and 11 rebounds, Kawhi Leonard added 16 points, and Toronto held off host Orlando to take a 2-1 lead in their Eastern Conference first-round series.Siakam was 13 for 20 from the field, and the Raptors held Orlando to 36 percent shooting. Terrence Ross led Orlando with 24 points, and Nikola Vucevic shook off a slow start to finish with 22 points and 14 rebounds.Game 4 is Sunday night in Orlando.The Raptors trailed, 61-60, midway through the third quarter before going on a 16-0 run over the next four minutes to take the lead for good.Kyle Lowry’s 3-pointer with 7 minutes 48 seconds left gave Toronto its biggest lead, 86-69. The Magic rallied, and Ross’s 3-pointer with 41 seconds left cut the deficit to 96-93.Leonard was short with a jumper on the next possession, but the Magic could not control the rebound. Leonard made two free throws with 12.9 seconds remaining to make it a two-possession game again, and that closed the scoring.Orlando, which finished the regular season by winning 13 of its final 14 home games, was 13 of 44 from 3-point range.THUNDER 120, TRAIL BLAZERS 108 Russell Westbrook had 33 points and 11 assists and Oklahoma City won at home against Portland to cut its Western Conference series deficit to 2-1.Paul George added 22 points, Jerami Grant had 18 and Dennis Schroder 17 for the Thunder, who will host Game 4 on Sunday night.Damian Lillard scored 32 points for the Trail Blazers, but he had just 3 in the fourth quarter after scoring 25 in the third. C.J. McCollum had 21 points, and Enes Kanter added 19.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byN.B.A. RoundupBy The Associated PressD’Angelo Russell flashed some postseason magic, playing like the All-Star leader the Nets needed with 26 points, and Caris LeVert scored 23, leading the visiting Nets to a 111-102 victory on Saturday over the Philadelphia 76ers in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round playoff series.Jimmy Butler scored 36 points and saved the third-seeded Sixers, favored by many to at least reach the East semifinals, from losing by 25. Joel Embiid slogged his way through 24 minutes on a troubled left knee that cost him much of the final month of the regular season and managed 22 points and 15 rebounds. Ben Simmons came up small against Russell, his high school teammate, who scored 19 second-half points.Russell, LeVert and Spencer Dinwiddie gave the Sixers fits off the dribble and buried open looks from 3-point range, and a team that got hot late and just made the playoffs suddenly has the upper hand on the road over a 51-win team stocked with stars.“I think earlier in the season, especially when we were struggling, we’d lose games like that,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said.With Philadelphia behind by 16 late in the fourth quarter, Amir Johnson was caught by television cameras sitting on the bench and scrolling through his phone. Johnson, who was inactive for the game, showed Embiid whatever message was on the phone and then slid the device into a pocket of his warm-up pants.“I just looked down because he said his daughter was extremely sick and he was checking on her,” Embiid said.Johnson issued an apology after the game, and the Sixers fined him an unspecified amount. It was a fitting episode in a game that the Sixers seemed to have phoned in.Russell hit a string of jumpers in the third quarter, never letting the Sixers seriously chip away at the lead. LeVert’s third 3-pointer in the fourth made it a 16-point game, and there was no looking back for one of the biggest wins since the sixth-seeded Nets moved to Brooklyn.Dinwiddie and DeMarre Carroll made consecutive 3-pointers during a 12-0 first-half run. LeVert hit two straight 3s for a 14-point lead, and the Sixers were soundly booed off the court.“We all got to do a better job,” Embiid said. “Us. The fans. We have to bring the fun.”WARRIORS 121, CLIPPERS 104 Stephen Curry scored 38 points and made eight 3-pointers, reaching the highest total in postseason history, and top-seeded Golden State began its quest for a three-peat by winning at home against Los Angeles on a night when tempers flared.Kevin Durant and Patrick Beverley were ejected with 4 minutes 41 seconds to go, 19 seconds after they received double technicals when Durant stripped Beverley and the Clippers guard fell into the scorer’s table.They both became enraged again, and the official Ed Malloy immediately sent them both to the locker room. Durant high-fived fans as he left.Curry was 8 for 12 from beyond the arc, passing Ray Allen (385) for career postseason 3-pointers with 386.MAGIC 104, RAPTORS 101 D. J. Augustin scored 25 points, including the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 3.5 seconds left, and seventh-seeded Orlando won at second-seeded Toronto in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round series.Kawhi Leonard, who led the Raptors with 25 points, got a final shot but missed the rim with his 3-point attempt from the top. The Raptors are now 2-14 in playoff series openers.WALTON TO COACH KINGS One day after parting ways with the Los Angeles Lakers, Luke Walton reached an agreement on a four-year deal to coach the Sacramento Kings, according to a person familiar with the deal who was not authorized to discuss it publicly.Magic Johnson abruptly resigned as the Lakers’ president this week in part because he did not want to go through with firing Walton, as had been expected around the N.B.A. for weeks. On Friday, Walton and the Lakers mutually agreed to part ways with two seasons left on his contract — with Walton knowing that the Kings, after firing Coach Dave Joerger on Thursday, were eager to hire him.The Lakers have the former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue and the Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams at their top of their list to succeed Walton. Lue coached the Lakers’ LeBron James for two and a half seasons in Cleveland.(MARC STEIN)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills and Washington Wizards forward Devin Robinson were arrested after a fight outside a nightclub, Washington police said Saturday.Karimah Bilal, program manager for the Metropolitan Police Department's office of communications, confirmed in an email to The Associated Press that the Mills named in the police report is the Eagles player.Both the 6-foot, 191-pound Mills and the 6-foot-8, 200-pound Robinson were charged with disorderly affray, which generally refers to fighting in a public place.The two men were "involved in a verbal altercation which escalated into a physical altercation on the sidewalk adjacent to the Opera Night Club" in the early hours of Saturday morning, according to the police report.Robinson was taken to a hospital for treatment, the report said.He also lost his job with the Wizards."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend him a qualifying offer for the 2019-20 season," the NBA team said in a statement.The Eagles said in their statement they are "aware of the situation" and "continuing to gather more information." They said they will not comment further now.Mills started eight games for the Eagles last season before going on injured reserve in December after hurting a foot.Philadelphia drafted him out of LSU in the seventh round in 2016. He was a member of the Eagles' Super Bowl championship team after the 2017 season, when he started 15 of 16 regular-season games.Robinson appeared in seven of the Wizards' 82 games last season and also played for their NBA G League affiliate, the Capital City Go-Go.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Howard MegdalThe hiring of the W.N.B.A. point guard Kristi Toliver as a full-time assistant coach with the N.B.A.’s Washington Wizards while she is still an active player was widely applauded as a notable new achievement for women in coaching.It followed the San Antonio Spurs’ hiring of Becky Hammon, and other women like Nancy Lieberman and Jenny Boucek also joining N.B.A. coaching staffs.“With anything, you need to see it to be it,” said Briann January, a guard for the Phoenix Mercury and, in her off-season, an assistant women’s basketball coach at Arizona State. “I see it now because of Becky. Because of Kristi. I see the opportunity that is out there to take that next step in this professional area.”For many players, the moves showed N.B.A. teams tapping into a longstanding, significant pipeline of female talent.“I think a lot of women in general are missing out on a lot of good opportunities in which we can be extremely beneficial to any team, to any organization, no matter our gender,” said Alana Beard, a veteran Los Angeles Sparks guard often mentioned as a coaching candidate by her peers.Beard cited the meager pay Toliver is to receive this season — just $10,000 because of limits in the W.N.B.A.’s collective bargaining agreement — as an “extremely important” issue for the league to address in negotiations for a new agreement. The goal would be making a barrier that has long been permeable on one side — men into women’s basketball on the coaching side — into a free exchange of talent, regardless of gender, based on opportunity.Many, if not most, W.N.B.A. players, who are paid significantly less than their male counterparts, cannot afford to spend their off-season working for so little pay. Their basketball skills are worth much more — into the millions of dollars — in service of women’s leagues overseas.“All of those things on a coach’s plate to take care of, to do that for $10,000 for an entire N.B.A. season is crazy,” January said. “I’d like to break that down and do the math, like how much that is a game or how much that is a day. That would just be insult to injury.”Yet some people, including commentators on internet sites and men’s basketball fans in real life, contend these women should be happy to have opportunities at all.This attitude rankles many W.N.B.A. players — that even Toliver’s shot, let alone chances for other women with considerable experience playing and in many cases coaching, is often thought of as a one-sided benefit for those who are hired.But in many cases, the N.B.A. came calling after seeing the women excelling on their own. Toliver’s work with the Mystics helped bring her to the attention of Wizards Coach Scott Brooks, just as Hammon got her opportunity in San Antonio because she was employed by the Silver Stars, then owned by the same group as the Spurs, and her W.N.B.A. coach, Dan Hughes, talked her up to Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich.“I had a chance to put two parties together that I knew would work,” Hughes, now the head coach of the Seattle Storm, said. “I knew Becky, and I also knew Pop, and I knew that Pop, we had a lot of years of conversation about Becky. He had seen her play when I first brought her to San Antonio. So to me it was an opportunity to merge two people that would benefit from each other.”Toliver has opened up that discussion in significant ways, which she said was a large part of her reasoning for taking the job in the first place. In Hughes’s eyes, it is nothing less than the overdue elimination of whatever combination of sexism and inertia has prevented the men’s basketball world from taking advantage of all the talent amassed on the women’s side of the sport, the next step toward N.B.A. teams and W.N.B.A. teams and men’s and women’s college basketball programs all hiring from the same pool of candidates.As Hughes sees it, it’s time, not because these women deserve a chance, but because every basketball team needs more coaches like Hammon, Toliver and those who will follow.“I want a world someday where people judge coaches on how good a coach they truly are,” Hughes said. “Doesn’t matter if they’re male or female, doesn’t matter their background. They can say he’s a coach or she’s a coach, and we can use them.”Every W.N.B.A. player who stays home instead of playing overseas in her off-season, the athletes said, is potentially one more person around which to promote the league year-round, and that player gets to rest, too. The grind of playing 12 months a year has led to W.N.B.A. players like Diana Taurasi and Angel McCoughtry taking seasons off.“You always want to protect your product,” January said. “And the majority of our product is being run down and beaten up year-round playing this game. So when they come back around to play in the W.N.B.A., you have half of your players injured, playing through nagging things. We still find a way to have a high talent and high level of basketball, which is crazy to me.“We just have some really strong women, but that needs to be a discussion. What can we do to provide other opportunities for women to make income and prepare for the future on a real-life scale? Something they can live on. Something that makes sense.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.Saunders, 32, is the youngest head coach in the league. He took over when Tom Thibodeau was fired in early January and he has earned the endorsement of his players, most notably from All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.The Timberwolves are 36-45 entering Wednesday night's season finale at Denver, including a 17-24 mark under Saunders' leadership.Saunders will reportedly receive a three-year deal with a team option on the final season.Saunders had been an assistant coach with Minnesota since 2014, after serving as an assistant with the Washington Wizards from 2009-14.Saunders' father, Flip, was the head coach of the Timberwolves from 1995-2005 and again in 2014-15. Flip Saunders guided the team to eight straight playoff appearances.ESPN also reported that Timberwolves owner Glen Taylor plans to retain general manager Scott Layden, who has been with the team since 2016.On Wednesday, the team announced it was starting its search for a president of basketball operations, a position that has been vacant since Thibodeau's dismissal."In the absence of Tom, I want to thank all who picked up his responsibilities this past year. This includes Interim Head Coach Ryan Saunders, General Manager Scott Layden and our entire basketball staff for their efforts leading our team through the 2018-19 season," Taylor said in a statement. "They worked through a season with many injuries requiring many challenges in our player lineup. We are incredibly grateful to them for all of their hard work and commitment to the franchise."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe foot injury that cost John Wall half of this season might sideline the Washington Wizards point guard for all of next season, too.The five-time All-Star, speaking to reporters Tuesday during the Wizards' season finale, expressed uncertainty regarding the timetable for his recovery. Wall hasn't played since Dec. 26, and he underwent surgery in February to repair his left Achilles tendon."Whenever my body feels like it's back to where I feel ready to play, that's when I'll come back," Wall said, according to the Washington Post. "I think I've been through the process of plenty of injuries and just coming back before I was supposed to and injuring myself and making it a lot worse. So, this is one, just take my time and let my whole body heal and get back to being 100 percent."Wall, 28, appeared in 32 games this season, and he averaged 20.7 points (the second-highest mark of his career), 8.7 assists and 3.6 rebounds.Asked his thoughts on the possibility the Wizards could select a point guard in this year's draft, Wall said, according to the Post, "I'd be fine. I don't have no problem with that because it is what it is. You have to do what's best for the team and make sure that we have pieces. And when I come back, he can be a great backup to me."He said of his aim for the offseason: "Just getting the motion back in my foot, just being able to walk on two shoes. That's what I'm really waiting to get to. Then after that, it's just everything is taking my time and going with the process. That's how long it takes."Wall still has four years and $170 million left on his contract.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott Cacciola and Eric SchmittLOS ANGELES — Knicks center Enes Kanter said on Friday that he would not travel with the team to play the Washington Wizards in London on Jan. 17 because he feared retaliation for his public opposition to President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey.Kanter, who is Turkish, has been an outspoken critic of the president for years.“Sadly, I’m not going because of that freaking lunatic, the Turkish president,” Kanter said after the Knicks’ 119-112 victory over the Lakers. “It’s pretty sad that all the stuff affects my career and basketball because I want to be out there and help my team win. But just because of the one lunatic guy, one maniac, one dictator, I can’t even go out there and do my job. It’s pretty sad.”Kanter said Turkish operatives could present a danger to him in London.“They have a lot of spies there,” he said. “I could get killed there easy.”An official at the Turkish Embassy in Washington, speaking Saturday on the condition of anonymity to abide by diplomatic protocol, dismissed Kanter’s comments as baseless.A Knicks official later said that Kanter would not be traveling to London because of a visa issue.In May 2017, Kanter was detained for several hours at an airport in Romania after the Turkish government canceled his travel documents. Later that year, Turkey’s state-run news agency reported that prosecutors were seeking more than four years in jail for Kanter on charges that he had insulted Erdogan on social media.Scott Cacciola reported from Los Angeles, and Eric Schmitt from Washington.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.He secured his season high in points with a straightaway 3-pointer, his fifth of the game, early in the third quarter for 22 points. That was followed by a rare slam dunk that elicited howls from the crowd and a big smile across Nowitzki's face.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history then drained another jumper for 26 points and an 80-49 Dallas lead. He re-entered the game with three minutes left and hit two more buckets to go 11 of 31 from the floor. He finished with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 32 minutes.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points -- one off his career best -- with 26 coming in the fourth quarter, to get the Suns as close as 105-100 with 4:20 to play.Crawford, 39, became the oldest player ever to score 50-plus points in an NBA game. The old mark was held by Michael Jordan, who was 38 when he scored 51 for the Washington Wizards on Dec. 29, 2001, against the Charlotte Hornets.According to ESPN, Crawford also became the first player to score 50 points for four different franchises (Chicago Bulls, New York Knicks, Golden State Warriors and now Phoenix).The Suns closed out a miserable season, finishing 19-63.A longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery kept Nowitzki out until mid-December. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career, and averaged 6.6 points in less than 15 minutes a game before Tuesday.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted "M-V-P! M-V-P!" Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2006-07 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.The future of the Mavs (33-48), rookie Luka Doncic, also didn't disappoint, notching his eighth triple-double with 21 points, 11 assists and 16 rebounds. He moved into sole possession of third place for most triple-doubles by a rookie.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday. He compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.--The Lakers, meanwhile, received permission to discuss their opening for head coach with Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams, ESPN reported, citing league sources.The Lakers are focusing on Williams and former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue, and general manager Rob Pelinka plans to speak with each candidate in the near future, league sources told ESPN.After spending the previous two years in the San Antonio Spurs' front office following the death of his wife Ingrid in 2016, Williams got back into coaching as Brett Brown's top assistant with the 76ers.--The 76ers fined veteran center Amir Johnson an undisclosed amount for showing teammate Joel Embiid his cell phone on the bench late in a 111-102 loss to the Brooklyn Nets in Game 1 of their playoff series.TV cameras caught Johnson on the bench in the fourth quarter, when the 76ers were 16 points down and he was scrolling through his phone. After showing Embiid something on his phone, Johnson put it into the pocket of his warm-ups."I apologize for having my phone on the bench in today's game," Johnson said in a statement released hours after the game by the 76ers. "I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions. I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."--Milwaukee Bucks forward Nikola Mirotic is expected to return from a thumb injury to play in Game 1 of the first-round series against the Detroit Pistons on Sunday.Mirotic missed the final 11 games of the regular season after fracturing his left thumb during a March 19 game against the Los Angeles Lakers.Mirotic fully participated in Friday's practice and took part in Saturday's non-contact practice. He had his thumb taped during both workouts.--The Washington Wizards announced they will not make a qualifying offer to free agent forward Devin Robinson after he was apparently arrested late Friday."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend a qualifying offer to him for the 2019-20 season," it read.According to Washington Post reporter Candace Buckner, who covers the Wizards, Robinson was involved in an altercation with Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills at a nightclub.--Toronto Raptors forward OG Anunoby could be sidelined until the Eastern Conference finals, should the team make it that far, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.Anunoby underwent an emergency appendectomy on Thursday.The second-year player, who is a key reserve for the Raptors, scored 7.0 points per game this season with an average of 2.9 rebounds. He played in 67 games this season, starting six of them, a year after he started 62 games as a rookie from Indiana.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Bradley Beal became the first player in Washington Wizards franchise history to average at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists for a season, reaching the numbers he needed in a 116-110 loss to the playoff-bound Boston Celtics in a finale Tuesday night that was meaningless to both clubs.Eliminated a while ago and bound for the draft lottery, the Wizards wound up 32-50, their most losses since going 29-53 in 2012-13. Team president Ernie Grunfeld was fired last week after 16 years in charge.John Wall and Dwight Howard both missed most of the season with injuries.Beal, a two-time All-Star, finished with 16 points, five rebounds and four assists — all before halftime — on Tuesday as he played in all 82 games for the second consecutive season.The Celtics already were assured of finishing as the No. 4 team in the Eastern Conference and facing the No. 5-seeded Indiana Pacers in the first round of the playoffs. They finished 49-33.So there was no reason for Boston to care about the outcome Tuesday — or, therefore, use any of its best players.Seven prominent members of the roster were ruled out: Kyrie Irving, Jayson Tatum, Gordon Hayward, Al Horford, Marcus Smart, Aron Baynes and Marcus Morris. That group includes six of the top seven Celtics in scoring and assists, the club's six leading rebounders.The starting lineup was Jaylen Brown, Terry Rozier, Semi Ojeleye, Guerschon Yabusele and Robert Williams. Ojele, Yabusele and Williams had a combined three starts this season before Tuesday.TIP-INSCeltics: Rozier scored 21 points. ... Signed G Jonathan Gibson. He played four games for Boston last season. "He gets buckets," coach Brad Stevens said.Wizards: Tomas Satoransky scored 19 points. ... Signed Gs Jordan McRae and Tarik Phillip. McRae was on a two-way contract this season, when he averaged 5.9 points, 1.5 rebounds and 1.1 assists in 27 games for the Wizards and led the NBA G League in scoring at 30.4 ppg for the Capital City Go-Go. Phillip played for the Memphis Hustle in the G League.WALL SPEAKSWizards PG Wall says he is not sure whether he will be able to play next season as he recovers from a torn Achilles tendon. "I have no idea just yet," Wall told reporters at halftime. "That's my goal."STEVENS ON VIRGINIA, BENNETTStevens, who led Butler to two runner-up finishes in the NCAA Tournament, was asked for his reaction to seeing coach Tony Bennett and Virginia go from last year's disaster — the first No. 1 seed to lose to a 16 — to this year's championship. "One of the coolest things I think I've seen in sports was Tony Bennett's reaction when they got beat last year and the way that he handled it," Stevens said. "And then to back that up with the year they had ... and for all those kids and for him and for everybody associated with the program to win all those games in the fashion that they did. ... Tony is a good friend and I am thrilled for him and for college basketball. I think he's about all the good stuff."UP NEXT:Celtics: Game 1 of their first-round series against the Pacers will be in Boston; day and time to be announced.Wizards: Season over. Time for a GM search and a rebuild.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDwyane Wade scored 30 points in a tribute-filled final home game on Tuesday, but despite a 122-99 victory over Philadelphia, the Miami Heat were eliminated from playoff contention.Wade’s career will end Wednesday in Brooklyn. He checked out with 1:02 left, embracing teammates and his son, Zaire.Wade scored the first basket of the game on a dunk, Philadelphia scored the next eight — and it was all Miami the rest of the way.In the final minutes, Wade swished a 3-pointer and banked in two more en route to 14 points in the final quarter.MAVERICKS 120, SUNS 109 Dirk Nowitzki scored a season-high 30 points in what was most likely the final home game of the 40-year-old’s 21st season.The 14-time All-Star scored the team’s first 10 points and passed his previous season high of 21 on a 3-pointer early in the third quarter. The Mavericks end their season Wednesday in San Antonio.Jamal Crawford scored 51 points for Phoenix (19-63), which had by far the worst record in the Western Conference.Fans stood during warm-ups, recording Nowitzki in the layup line on their phones. The 7-foot German obliged with a dunk. Then he had another dunk in the game — his second of the season — in the second half.Nowitzki fought back tears during a tribute video in between the first and second quarters.KNICKS 96, BULLS 86 Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points, Mitchell Robinson added eight points and 17 rebounds and the Knicks escaped the possibility of finishing with the worst record in franchise history.With one game remaining, against Detroit, the Knicks (17-64) can only tie the mark of the 2014-15 team. They already secured the N.B.A.’s worst record and a draft position no worse than fifth.The Bulls, meanwhile, lost for the 32nd time at United Center this season, a franchise record.PISTONS 100, GRIZZLIES 93 Andre Drummond had 20 points and 17 rebounds, as host Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to cling to a playoff spot.Detroit can clinch a bid Wednesday night at New York.HORNETS 124, CAVALIERS 97 Kemba Walker scored 23 points and visiting Charlotte kept its playoff push alive. The Hornets (39-42) must now beat Orlando at home on Wednesday and hope the Pistons (39-42) lose in New York.WARRIORS 112, PELICANS 103 DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds for visiting Golden State, which took Stephen Curry out of the game after nine minutes with a mild foot sprain.The Warriors said Curry was held out as a precaution, having already had clinched the top playoff seed in the Western Conference. They also played without Kevin Durant and Klay Thompson.The game also likely marked the end of the Anthony Davis era in New Orleans. The disgruntled All-Star, who missed his seventh straight game with what the team has officially listed as back spasms, wore a T-shirt that said, “That’s All Folks.”CELTICS 116, WIZARDS 110 Bradley Beal 16 points, five rebounds and four assists — all before halftime — to become the first player in Washington Wizards franchise history to average at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists for a season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Mario Hezonja scored a career-high 30 points and made the go-ahead 3-pointer with 44 seconds left, and the New York Knicks beat the Washington Wizards at home for the first time in six years with a 113-110 victory Sunday night.Luke Kornet added 17 points and Kevin Knox had 16 for the Knicks (16-64), who would have tied the franchise record with a 65th loss had they not rallied from a 10-point deficit after three quarters.They had lost nine straight at Madison Square Garden to the Wizards since their last victory on April 9, 2013, but Hezonja brought New York back with some big plays in the final period.Starting again at point guard, he added six rebounds and five assists.Jeff Green had 19 points and Thomas Bryant scored 17 for the Wizards (32-49), who need to beat Boston on Tuesday in their final game to avoid a 50-loss season.Hezonja's 3-pointer made it 111-110, and the Knicks got the ball back when Sam Dekker lost it out of bounds. Hezonja hit two free throws for the final margin.New York has to win its last two games to avoid at least matching its 17-65 mark under Derek Fisher in 2014-15.Washington led 56-52 at halftime but New York took a 68-67 lead on Hezonja's follow shot with 7:41 remaining in the third. The Wizards ran off the next 13 points to go ahead 80-68 on Bobby Portis' 3-pointer about three minutes later, and they took an 89-79 lead to the fourth.New York made its first five 3s in the final quarter and charged back to take a 106-103 lead on Mitchell Robinson's free throws with 2:20 to play.TIP-INSWizards: Bradley Beal scored 13 points, going 5 of 17 and landing hard after a dunk in the first half. ... Jordan McRae sat out with a sore left Achilles tendon.Knicks: Dennis Smith Jr. played despite back soreness, coming off the bench to score 15 points after missing the previous three games. ... Coach David Fizdale isn't sure if guards Allonzo Trier (left calf) and Kadeem Allen (concussion) will return this season.WHAT IF?Washington coach Scott Brooks said it's hard not to look at the Eastern Conference, where a winning record wasn't required to secure a playoff berth, and think the Wizards should've been there."Every year you go down, 'OK, we came up short on that game, we should've won that game.' You can list off a bunch of games. I've always done that. When we won 60 games in OKC we did the same thing," Brooks said."There's definitely opportunity the way the East is this year. There might be three teams right at .500 — 6, 7, 8. But can't worry about that now. We've got to move forward and during a tough season a lot of good things happened."NO PROBLEM, HOUSTONFizdale wasn't concerned with Rockets starters leaving the bench before the Knicks' loss in Houston had ended on Friday, saying he didn't know their reasons for doing so and didn't need them to explain it to him."I've got a game today," he said. "I've got the Wizards."UP NEXTWizards: Host Boston on Tuesday.Knicks: Visit Chicago on Tuesday.___Advertisement
FeatureAfter decades of resistance to sports gambling, team owners and state officials are laying the groundwork for it — with potentially huge implications.CreditCreditPhoto illustration by Najeebah Al-Ghadban. Source photograph: Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images.Supported byBy Bruce SchoenfeldHalf an hour before a preseason hockey game last fall, Ted Leonsis strolled down the concourse of Capital One Arena in Washington, stopping every now and then to pose for someone’s selfie. Leonsis owns both the Washington Capitals, the National Hockey League team, and the arena itself, a squat behemoth that fills a block of Chinatown not far from Ford’s Theater. He also owns other teams that play there, including the Washington Wizards, in the National Basketball Association, and some smaller ones that don’t.Leonsis is easily the most popular sports owner in the nation’s capital, though the Wizards have managed just one division title in his eight seasons and his N.H.L. team underachieved for years. It helps that the Capitals finally won the Stanley Cup last season, the city’s first championship in any major professional league in more than a quarter-century. But Leonsis is also uncommonly friendly to fans. During his customary lap around the arena, he fielded questions from anyone who came up to him. It was hard to imagine many big-league owners doing the same.A middle-aged African-American man in a Capitals jersey approached Leonsis. “What about that gambling thing?” he asked. A few months before, the federal statute prohibiting sports gambling was overturned by the Supreme Court; this was the first home game since a few states, newly liberated to set their own gambling agendas, had implemented laws allowing sports bets. Leonsis has been vocal about his support for legal gambling, and he was full of ideas. One was a sports bar he planned to put inside the arena that would handle bets. It would fit into a space currently occupied by a brewpub, or perhaps displace a fitness center. He envisioned betting windows, like those at a horse track.Sports gambling wasn’t yet legal in the District of Columbia, and until it was, there would be no betting windows. But Leonsis is confident that they will come. “Eventually,” he told me, the bar “will be somewhere that fans can congregate and watch games and bet on the games in whatever way they want to” — whether at the windows or on hand-held devices. Leonsis would outsource the bookmaking, because owning a team while taking bets on its games would be perceived as a conflict of interest (and probably be illegal). Instead, he would simply offer a site for eating, drinking and more gambling. “Except that I want to outlaw the word ‘gambling,’ ” he said. “Maybe call it ‘interactive wagering.’ When you hear ‘gambling,’ you think of Tony Soprano — ‘I’m with my bookie.’ People who bet on N.C.A.A. pools at their church, they don’t think they’re gambling. They are.”Leonsis, who held various executive positions at America Online from 1994 to 2007, says he doesn’t gamble — not on sports or on anything else. Yet he has risked both his reputation and his capital on the future of sports wagering. He owns a stake in DraftKings, a daily sports fantasy company that has segued into online gambling. He has invested in Sportradar, which delivers, at high speed, information on games in progress to bookmaking websites, creating the sort of advantage enjoyed by Wall Street traders who, in his words, “get a quarter of a second more to say ‘buy that stock.’ ” He owns part of WinView, which holds numerous patents for various aspects of in-game gambling. He hopes to fill the schedule of the NBC Sports Washington cable channel, of which he owns a third, with chatter about point spreads and gambling opportunities. “Like CNBC,” he says.Gambling on sports became explicitly legal in Nevada in 1949. Until recently, the prospect of it spreading beyond that state’s borders was treated as potentially ruinous by the franchise owners and commissioners who ruled over sports. They feared that it would alter the relationship between fans and their favorite teams, and that gambling would expose athletes to underworld characters trying to manipulate games. Eventually, the cautionary tale went, the competition in even the biggest leagues would be indistinguishable from the manufactured plotlines of pro wrestling or old-time roller derby. Gambling on sports was already happening, of course — at Las Vegas casinos, on illegal internet sites, at the corner bar — yet somehow that hadn’t made it more palatable. “Even five years ago,” says Steve Murray, a partner with Leonsis in the venture-capital firm that has invested in many of these businesses, “you would have had a hard time finding a single owner in any of these leagues saying that gambling was a good idea. You wouldn’t have been able to do it.”Since then, attitudes seem to have changed abruptly. It’s now difficult to find anyone inside sports who opposes gambling. In part that’s because the leagues and their investors have come to see how much they stand to gain. But it’s also a result of insiders like Leonsis evangelizing to anyone who would listen: in owners’ meetings, in conversations with sponsors, even with U.S. congressmen during a 2017 gambling conference on Capitol Hill. “He’s a visionary, and he speaks quite eloquently about what the future opportunities are,” says Gary Bettman, the N.H.L.’s commissioner, who until recently strongly opposed gambling on sports. “He has been at the forefront of pushing us to make sure we’re as knowledgeable as we can be. I get emails on this from him daily — more than daily.”Leonsis speaks slowly but exuberantly. His conversation unfolds as logically as a business plan. “What are you so afraid of?” he likes to ask anyone who seems uneasy about gambling. “We’re going to create more jobs. We’re going to generate more taxes.” While pro athletes were once paid poorly enough to make the offers of payoffs enticing, Leonsis argues that a vast majority are today far wealthier than anyone who might tempt them. “I don’t think an N.B.A. player is susceptible to some hustler saying, ‘Shave the points, and here’s $5,000 in hundred-dollar bills,’ ” he says.Leonsis arrived back at his suite shortly after the opening face-off. He sat down in time to see the Boston Bruins score a goal. I mentioned that where sports wagers were now legal, gamblers had surely placed bets both for and against the Capitals. Leonsis wanted his team to win, naturally, even though this preseason game didn’t really count. But he admitted that just the fact that those bets could be made meant that, in a sense, he’d already won.In the middle of the 20th century, television began reframing the way we experience sports. It gave us replays and extended timeouts, pushed World Series games into prime time, scrambled conference affiliations. Through national telecasts and highlights and, later, superstations and cable networks, fans grew intimate with teams many hundreds of miles away. Now gambling is poised to unleash changes just as transformative, and they may come fast. In an October report, PricewaterhouseCoopers estimated that a fully developed sports gambling industry in all states would draw $100 billion in bets every year; the congressional National Gambling Impact Study Commission has suggested the figure could be closer to $400 billion. Whatever the size of the jackpot, leagues, teams and broadcasters will want their piece of it. “The players, the sponsors, all the stakeholders in the ecosystem can become beneficiaries of this,” says Peter Guber, an owner of both the Golden State Warriors and the Los Angeles Dodgers.The games we watch are already enhanced by data collected through technological advances. Announcers tell us how hard baseballs are hit and how far they travel, or how many miles a particularly active soccer player has run. Because such derivatives create new opportunities for betting, we’re sure to see many more of them. (The N.B.A. has been advertising for a gambling data analyst on the employment website Glassdoor.) Hockey hasn’t traditionally generated much in the way of metrics, but in order to learn who is skating the fastest or shooting the hardest, the N.H.L. is preparing to record the movements of every player during every game and even put a chip inside the puck. “Leagues are building a fire hose of data around their product,” says Chris Grove, an analyst who consults for gaming companies and investors. “And the logical recipient of that data is the betting industry.”What are the chances that someone homers in the next two innings? Or kicks a field goal in the next five minutes? Imagine those odds sliding across the bottom of your screen like the CNN news crawl. As a sports media consultant and former N.B.A. executive named Ed Desser puts it, “How does the production and presentation of telecasts change to accommodate gambling?” Explicit references to betting might seem jarring during a Masters broadcast, which has the feel of a conversation in a Ritz-Carlton lobby. But Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson’s made-for-TV showdown in November, which included such information, gave viewers more reasons to care about what happened.Real-time digital wagering has created betting opportunities that don’t rely on the score; the appeal of a game in which the Patriots are up by 30 points in the fourth quarter is altogether different if you can put money down right then on how many more first downs they’ll get. As viewers create their own narrative tension by betting on pieces of the action, broadcast rights fees will increase and franchise values soar. That tension could also be artificially created and exploited by event promoters too. “If you’re the U.F.C. and you have an absolute dog of a fight on a major card for whatever reason, you could use odds and promotions around betting to drive fan interest,” Grove points out. “You could use betting proactively.”Legal gambling also opens the door to an entirely new source of sponsorship income. In English soccer, 26 of the 44 teams that compete in the sport’s top echelons wear shirts festooned with the names of bookmaking sites. Don’t be surprised to see them soon in the N.B.A. or Major League Soccer. Games will be held in venues with names like the Bet365 Bowl or Caesars Coliseum and be analyzed by touts on TV and subscription podcasts. “As you create more interest in these things, people want more information,” Desser says. “And they’re always looking for an edge.”Perhaps nobody sees more dollar signs on the horizon than legislators. It remains uncertain how quickly states will continue to pass new gambling laws, or how broad or restrictive those will be, but few dispute the potential impact. “I was talking to some economic development people from Alabama,” says Jack Evans, a District of Columbia council member who introduced a sports gambling bill there that is expected to become law in March. “They were asking how they could raise money. I told them: ‘Put in sports gambling and you can pay off all your debts on the Alabama-Auburn football game alone. One game, Alabama and Auburn. You’d make billions.’ ”Leonsis has a stake in nearly all of these possibilities. He envisions simulcasts of every Wizards and Capitals game on NBC Sports Washington that will include a steady stream of betting information. He controls two teams in the resurrected Arena Football League and is pitching networks a gambling-centric concept for its games that’s too overt for the stodgy N.F.L., at least for now. Sportradar’s chief executive told me he expects its $2.4 billion valuation to quintuple in three years with the opening of the U.S. market, which will mean the same for Leonsis’s stake. And if franchise values rise because of fans’ increased engagement in the sports they follow, Leonsis’s N.H.L. and N.B.A. teams could be his most profitable gambling plays of all. In time, sports betting may generate its own Mark Zuckerberg or Jeff Bezos, some forward-thinking entrepreneur who comes to define the zeitgeist of his generation. For now, though, the person whose odds are as great as anyone’s to profit from this emerging industry is Leonsis, a 62-year-old billionaire who has been around since the early days of the World Wide Web.The history of regulated gambling in America goes back to 1931, when Nevada opened the nation’s first casinos. The state was on the verge of bankruptcy, a predicament that motivated it to defy the prevailing national sentiment against gambling. “Any state could have done it,” says Anthony Cabot, who teaches gaming law at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. “But no others did.” Just as pro football was starting to thrive, Nevada broadened its gambling law to regulate sports bets. Over the next half-century, American attitudes toward gambling evolved. In 1978, with great fanfare, casinos opened in Atlantic City. A decade later, Congress passed a law permitting them on land owned by Native American tribes. By 2003, a Gallup Poll revealed, nearly half of all Americans had played the lottery in the previous 12 months; almost a third had visited a casino. But just 10 percent had bet on a pro sports event, mostly because there were few legal ways to do it.Nobody tried to legalize sports betting outside Nevada until Chris Christie. By the time Christie became New Jersey’s governor in 2010, Atlantic City was in trouble. The novelty appeal of its casinos had faded. Hotel bookings had plummeted — and tax-generating casino revenues with them. Christie saw sports betting as a way to counter those losses. His first year in office, he pushed a referendum that would allow it at any racetrack or casino in the state. The referendum passed, and Christie signed it into law.There was only one problem. Through the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act of 1992 — which, in a somewhat curious twist, had been sponsored by New Jersey’s own Bill Bradley, the former N.B.A. great turned senator — the federal government banned sports gambling throughout the country, beyond a few existing manifestations that were allowed to continue. Those included betting on bicycle racing in New Mexico and golf in Wyoming, several sports-based lotteries, horse racing, jai alai and the bookmaking inside Nevada’s casinos.In 2014, New Jersey’s referendum was challenged in court by the N.C.A.A. The major sports leagues joined the suit as plaintiffs. But Christie had calculated that the Supreme Court wouldn’t uphold a law banning a recreational pursuit in 49 states that had been legal for decades in the 50th, and he was right. The court, analysts noted, wanted to make a show of limiting federal jurisdiction. “They just happened to pick a gambling law to do so,” Cabot says. Last May’s verdict in what had been renamed Murphy v. N.C.A.A., after Christie’s successor, Phil Murphy, surprised the gambling industry. “You’d be amazed how many casino operators didn’t see it coming,” says Greg Carlin, co-founder and chief executive of Rush Street Gaming, which owns casinos in Pennsylvania, New York and Illinois. It didn’t surprise Leonsis, though. He’d been planning on it for years.Leonsis dates his personal revelation about gambling to November 2015, when he found himself visiting the remote southwest coast of Scotland. His daughter, who lived in London, had a serious boyfriend, and both families had flown in to spend Thanksgiving weekend at a manor house owned by the boyfriend’s parents. On a clear day, Leonsis was told, you could see Ireland across the water. He never could confirm that, though, because the weather was never clear. The basketball and hockey seasons were underway back home, but the house had no internet or satellite reception, so Leonsis couldn’t follow his teams. It was foggy and cold. “There was nothing to do,” he says.The closest village of any size, Campbeltown, was 40 minutes away. One morning, they all drove in for lunch. Nobody seemed to be around. “The whole town is like two blocks long,” Leonsis says. “And there’s one restaurant and a pharmacy. And then we saw one place that had some life to it.” Inside a storefront, a crowd was making noise. It was the betting parlor, Leonsis learned. The phrase didn’t carry any connotation of disrepute, as it would in America. “It was just, ‘This is where you go and watch a game and see your friends and hang out,’ ” he said. “It was the ‘Cheers’ of Campbeltown.”From Scotland, Leonsis went to London. Driving through his daughter’s neighborhood, he noticed one betting parlor after another. “Like in America, where you’d have a Starbucks,” he says. He investigated and found that you could bet on sports at 8,500 outlets in the United Kingdom. As a comparison, he looked up Domino’s pizza and saw that it had roughly 5,500 stores across the United States. “For me, that was the beginning of, ‘Hey, this is a true consumer phenomenon,’ ” he says. The parlors seemed inviting. They weren’t seedy haunts for professional gamblers. “This is not Off-Track Betting,” Leonsis says. “This is Starbucks or Domino’s. This is popularized and accepted in the most remote places and the most centrally located places. If you wanted to find a proxy of what could happen here, you just had to look at Campbeltown and London.”Adam Silver, who is now the N.B.A.’s commissioner, had been doing just that. From 1998 to 2006, Silver ran the league’s video production and programming. On frequent business trips abroad, he couldn’t help noticing how pervasive gambling was. Stadiums had betting kiosks beside their snack bars. “There was this enormous legalized infrastructure in place,” Silver says. Yet somehow, leagues and teams hadn’t been corrupted. In fact, they were thriving. Silver’s boss at the time, David Stern, was a lawyer who had come to the sport during college basketball’s betting scandals of the 1960s. Throughout his tenure, Stern remained opposed to gambling — he later changed his mind — and for years even refused to hold league meetings and other events in Las Vegas. “But the opportunity seemed fairly obvious to me,” Silver says.In 2014, Silver succeeded Stern as N.B.A. commissioner. That year, in a New York Times Op-Ed, he made an argument that did not differ much from those advocating the legalization of marijuana. “Despite legal restrictions, sports betting is widespread,” he wrote. “Because there are few legal options available, those who wish to bet resort to illicit bookmaking operations and shady offshore websites.” Why not bring the action into the light, he proposed, where it could be regulated, and the movement of betting lines and the sums of money monitored?Earlier that fall, the N.B.A. signed a nine-year, $24 billion television rights deal. At the league’s board of governors meeting in New York, Leonsis, who was chairman of its media committee, presented it to the rest of the owners. Even as he celebrated the deal, he cautioned that such fees were unlikely to grow, though the cost of operating teams inevitably would. “We have to find new pots of gold,” he said.Leonsis believed he had found them on that trip to the United Kingdom. You can hold your nose all you want, he later told his colleagues, but gambling offered a viable and wholly untapped source of revenue for the N.B.A. Leonsis can be almost courtly in negotiations, and he was polite when he met resistance. Privately, though, he shook his head. How could you ignore such an opportunity, ready to be taken advantage of as soon as the law allowed? What are you so afraid of?For decades, sports gambling tended to be a static experience. You bet on a team and handed money to somebody, and maybe got a slip of paper in return. Then you waited to find out if you were right. That changed when three American options traders moved to Antigua in the mid-1990s to create an online gambling business they named World Sports Exchange. Instead of offering point spreads, World Sports Exchange operated like a commodities market. Before tipoff, options on the favored Lakers, for example, might cost $60 each. Options on the Knicks, the underdogs, might sell for $40. At the end of the game, the options on the losing team would become worthless, while the options on the winning team would each pay out $100.But here was the novelty: You didn’t have to wait until the game was over to cash in. If the Lakers scored the first eight points, the value of that $60 option might grow to, say, $72. You could sell it and pocket your $12 gain. You might then invest in the Knicks at a discount. Or you might wait for the price to fall and buy another option on the Lakers. You could buy and sell options, on either team or both, throughout the game. Once you’d started, it was hard to stop until the game ended. It was exhausting. It was also great fun. And even more than the other bookmakers operating beyond U.S. borders, which were handling traditional bets, it seemed to threaten the monopoly on sports gambling that Nevada’s casinos had long enjoyed.I met one of those traders, Haden Ware, under a thatched roof in the Caribbean in early 2000. He was drinking beer and eating lobster salad. Steve Schillinger, a partner at World Sports Exchange, later confided to me that he and Ware were each making more than $1 million a year. Yet they were miserable. The Interstate Wire Act of 1961 had outlawed taking bets over telephone lines. In that era of dial-up internet access, that’s exactly what World Sports Exchange was doing. Online gambling was “especially pernicious,” in the words of Jon Kyl, the U.S. senator from Arizona. “You get up in the morning and log on to your computer and start to gamble. It plays to the addictive nature of many people, especially kids.” Quoting an unnamed Harvard professor, Kyl called it “the crack cocaine of gambling.” A conservative Republican, Kyl introduced specific legislation against internet gambling and vowed to indict expats taking bets online. In 1998, 21 U.S. citizens were charged with Wire Act violations. Among them were Ware, Schillinger and Jay Cohen, another partner. Weary of living in exile, Cohen flew home. He was convicted and served 18 months in prison. Janet Reno, the U.S. Attorney General, backed Kyl’s efforts. So did casinos, sports leagues and gambling interest groups — just about everyone, in fact, except some Indian tribes. Even the lobbyist being paid by World Sports Exchange acknowledged that the opponents of digital gambling had a point. “The casinos worked a long time to establish legitimacy,” he told me.Eventually, World Sports Exchange was overtaken by better-funded rivals. It ceased operations in 2013. That same day, Schillinger committed suicide. After serving his sentence, Cohen disappeared to Europe. By then, though, their insight that betting doesn’t have to stop when play begins had revolutionized the industry; what DraftKings and its competitors are currently doing in New Jersey, and what companies like Betfair and Bet365 do in England, could not exist without it.Since the demise of World Sports Exchange, sports betting on various hand-held devices has proliferated. And because smartphones and tablets routinely capture the details of each transaction, proponents argue that games are actually better protected against manipulation when digital betting is legal. “If there was a huge bet placed against a team two hours before an announcement that its star player wouldn’t be participating, that is something that should cause us to investigate,” Silver says. “And it’s something that historically we wouldn’t have known.”For many N.B.A. owners — and some in other leagues as well — the conversion began in 2014 with Silver’s Op-Ed and his argument that legalization actually offered more protection, not less, from the unsavory characters who might try to influence players. Europe was proving to be a test case, and its teams were thriving. Now Leonsis has come along, telling owners that their franchises would gain in value because gambling, like fantasy leagues, gives fans another reason to be engrossed in a sport.“Ted was able to articulate the value proposition of not just the betting, but the deepening of the engagement,” Guber says. Rather than customers, Leonsis thinks of fans as an audience. “He understood that audiences want experiences,” Guber says. “This gives them a chance to walk away telling their own story — ‘I saw this opportunity, I recognized what this player would be able to accomplish.’ When you have a tool that makes an audience more of a participant than a passenger, it’s a very vital and vibrant element.”There are risks inherent in legalizing sports gambling, Guber believes. But after talking with Leonsis, he became convinced that its opportunities far outweighed them. The N.B.A. was still a plaintiff when the Supreme Court heard the gambling case in late 2017, but by then Guber was among the many owners who were rooting for New Jersey to win.One afternoon last October, Terry Link drove from his home outside Chicago to Springfield, the Illinois state capital. An informational presentation about gambling was scheduled in the House of Representatives the following day, and Link, a Democrat who serves as assistant majority leader in the Illinois Senate, wanted to attend. Since he was first elected in 1996, he has sponsored several gambling bills. Not one became law. “I’m still waiting to get one signed,” he says ruefully.Before dinner that evening, he stopped into a bar to meet Jeremy Kudon, a lobbyist whom DraftKings and its competitor FanDuel have hired to help persuade legislators to pass laws allowing digital gambling. After ordering a soda, Link told Kudon that Illinois casinos hoped to use sports betting to get new customers into their buildings. He reminded Kudon that casinos have generated plenty of tax money for the state. Because of that, Link said, he wouldn’t favor a bill that would allow gamblers to undermine them by “placing bets from the couches in their living rooms.”This was a problem for Kudon, because bets placed from living-room couches are exactly what his clients need to survive. Kudon argued that gamblers were already betting from their couches, but doing so on illegal websites. And the state was missing out on its cut.DraftKings and FanDuel, whose valuations are both estimated to exceed $1 billion, were founded on the same idea: curate a limitless number of fantasy leagues for profit, generated by participation fees, and let customers choose new players every day. For many fans, watching games quickly became the equivalent of monitoring their investment portfolios, except the investments were bets on individual players. Eric Schneiderman, New York’s attorney general at the time, thought that sounded a lot like gambling.Games of skill are legal in every state; you can pay to participate in fishing or bowling competitions, for example, and win cash prizes. What you can’t do is bet on who you think will win those competitions. The fantasy sites argued, somewhat tenuously, that constructing a winning team is more like fishing than knowing who is good at fishing. Schneiderman disagreed. In 2015, he shut down both sites and fined the companies. At that point, DraftKings and FanDuel began working to get bills passed in state legislatures that would certify fantasy sports as legal.Soon after, Leonsis bought part of DraftKings. He tends to characterize troubled companies in one of two ways — as either “falling angels,” which eventually rise again, or as “falling knives,” which don’t. In DraftKings, he saw a falling angel. He anticipated that digital sports betting would become legal, and he agreed with Jason Robins, the DraftKings chief executive, that the gaming-industry giants everyone assumed would dominate the U.S. market — the English bookmaker William Hill or maybe Bally’s or Caesars — were actually at a disadvantage. “We have a big database of customers that we know from research are already betting on sports, mostly with black-market websites,” Robins says. “And we have a brand that is much more identified with winning money and betting on sports than any of them that we’re competing with.”Last summer, DraftKings partnered with a casino, as New Jersey’s law requires, and became the first company to begin taking digital bets. Since then, it has done more online business than any other bookmaker. Its ads blanket cable networks in New Jersey. “Get ready for thousands of ways to bet!” they shout — and they’re not exaggerating. One DraftKings executive estimates that the company’s app averages 45,000 to 55,000 different propositions for gamblers to consider every day.But sports gambling laws enacted in most other states have restricted digital activity. Mississippi allows it, but only if the gamblers are physically inside a casino. Delaware’s law has not yet allowed any digital betting at all. Some casinos plan to leverage their brands online, but many regard digital gambling as a threat. “We have hundreds of millions of dollars invested in our casinos,” says Dan Kehl, the chief executive of Elite Casino Resorts, whose family has been in the gambling business in Iowa since 1990.Kehl backs a bill that would require anyone who wants to bet on sports to first register at one of Iowa’s 19 casinos. That wouldn’t work in larger states, he acknowledges, but no one in Iowa is more than an hour’s drive from a casino. Registered gamblers could bet digitally, though on only a limited selection of propositions. “The question is, how far can we let the mobile go?” Kehl says. That troubles Leonsis, not just because DraftKings might not get the right to operate profitably there, but because nobody will. If gamblers betting on illegal sites can’t be persuaded to bet legally, much of the windfall that investors and politicians like Terry Link are anticipating won’t materialize. It’s not enough that states pass laws legalizing sports betting, Leonsis explains; they have to pass the right law. “The only way that gambling doesn’t work,” he says, “is if the revenue projections are off. If it turns out that all those estimates we hear are wildly inaccurate.”Despite Kudon’s best efforts, laws that Leonsis considers favorable have been a difficult sell, mostly because of political pressure from casinos. In Springfield that evening, Link acknowledged that he personally favored digital sites partnering with casinos and paying them fees. But, he told Kudon, the Illinois casinos insist that whatever fees they’d get wouldn’t make up for the loss of all those potential roulette players. At that, Kudon rolled his eyes. “The gamblers that we’re talking about aren’t going to casinos,” he said. “They’ll never set foot in Rivers,” a casino in Des Plaines, Ill., “because they can bet on sports on these illegal sites. So let’s encourage them to go on DraftKings or FanDuel instead, and Rivers will get a benefit.” To Kudon, the mathematics are clear. “The state gets its licensing fee, and now we’ve gotten rid of the black market,” he said. “That seems like a win to everyone.”If Link’s bill allowed hand-held gambling, as Kudon fantasized, travelers might even make bets while changing planes at O’Hare airport. He urged Link to consider what that would mean for Illinois, the millions of tax dollars that might be generated if gamblers didn’t have to travel to a casino to bet. Link stroked his chin. “I don’t think there’s a right answer yet,” Link said. “You have to look at all the factors involved. In New Jersey, nobody wants to go to the Boardwalk anymore. All the casinos there are going kaput.”He sighed. Common ground seemed a long way away. “Listen, there’s no such thing as a perfect bill,” he said. “The reason we don’t pass these bills comes down to one word: ‘greed.’ Nobody wants part of the pie — they want the whole damn pie.”Last July, Silver announced that the N.B.A. had, in a sponsorship deal, granted MGM Resorts the right to use league logos and data. Even the N.H.L.’s Bettman has come to terms with gambling. “We’ve had a very practical approach,” he told me in his office a few months later. The previous afternoon, the N.H.L. announced its own deal with MGM, though the payment involved was said to be far smaller than the N.B.A.’s.But gambling’s greatest impact, at least proportionally, could come in the new professional leagues it spawns and the moribund ones it helps to resurrect. The Arena Football League once included 19 teams spread across the continent; last year there were four. Leonsis owns the Washington and Baltimore franchises, which makes him not only the most powerful owner in the league but the only person preventing its demise. He has positioned it as an ideal entertainment vehicle for the next generation. That includes gambling, of course. Arena Football averages a touchdown every six plays, Leonsis notes, as well as 98 points a game. “Lots of data generated,” he says — and a multitude of possible bets.Greater than $30 billion has been bet legally on football since 1992, according to the Center for Gaming Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. That’s about 50 percent more than on basketball, and double the amount bet on baseball. Leonsis wants to expand the A.F.L. to six franchises, and eventually to 12. But his vision mandates a network partner that will market the game as the anti-N.F.L.: informal, expressive and gambling-friendly. It doesn’t matter that the league, as currently constituted, has almost no history, he says. Your favorite team will be the one you have money on at the moment.On a private flight to New York last fall, Leonsis ran through a pitch he planned to show Sean McManus, who runs the sports department at CBS. He envisioned fast-paced telecasts of A.F.L. games on an affiliated sports channel. But as the plane landed in Teterboro, N.J., he confided that he doesn’t believe CBS will end up investing. Its executives are leery of jeopardizing their relationship with the N.F.L., he said, and that’s probably wise. The N.F.L. most likely wouldn’t look kindly on one of its primary partners’ televising another football league’s games. As usual, though, Leonsis was looking further ahead.“If the N.F.L. is smart, they should want CBS to do this,” he said. “See how far they can take it. Let the A.F.L. be the canary in the coal mine. See what works and what doesn’t work, and then they can pull back from there on their own telecasts.” He paused. “CBS is going to be very nice to us today, but I don’t know if they’re ready for this. We’re going to blow their minds.”An hour later, he was still stuck in New Jersey traffic. He also hadn’t stopped talking about gambling. But while his ideas had the potential to be wildly lucrative, I was struck by how little had actually happened in the months since the Supreme Court ruling. The betting parlor in his arena remained theoretical. DraftKings was thriving in New Jersey, but it hadn’t yet been licensed in another state. Sportradar’s explosive growth still existed only in the imagination of its chief executive. And most of the gambling laws being considered in state legislatures included severe limitations on digital play. As a result, in most states that have passed gambling laws, early revenues haven’t met projections. The growth process is slow, Leonsis admitted, and unpredictable. Yet he remained optimistic. “At AOL, it took us 10 years to get to 5 million” users, he said. “Then it took us five years to get to 30 million.”Just then, his car passed a billboard for a casino that read “Fire Your Bookie.” Leonsis pulled out his phone. “Look,” he said. “I’ll show you.” The DraftKings app was pulsing with offers. There were odds on who would win that night’s N.F.L. game and by how much, but also bets on total points on various games, odds on tennis matches, even European basketball. I was scrolling through them when we entered the Holland Tunnel and everything vanished. “We just passed into New York,” Leonsis said. “So now it won’t work.”A moment before, I’d been a legal gambler. Now, if I tried to place a bet from the same seat in the same car, I’d be breaking the law. I didn’t say anything, but Leonsis must have read the incredulity in my expression. He shrugged.“It’s a work in progress,” he said.Bruce Schoenfeld is frequent contributor to the magazine. He last wrote about Mickey Callaway, the manager of the New York Mets.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesTurkish prosecutors are seeking an international arrest warrant for Knicks center Enes Kanter, accusing him of membership in a terrorist organization.The Sabah newspaper said the Istanbul chief prosecutor’s office had also prepared an extradition request for Kanter, a Turkish citizen who has been a vocal critic of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the country’s president. Officials at the prosecutor’s office could not be reached by The Associated Press for comment.Kanter, who did not travel with the Knicks this week for their game in London after saying he feared he might be killed there over his opposition to Erdogan, responded on Twitter that the Turkish government could not present “any single piece of evidence of my wrongdoing.”“I don’t even have a parking ticket in the U.S.,” he wrote Wednesday. In a subsequent tweet, he posted an image of himself dunking and wrote, “The only thing I terrorize is the rim.”Kanter’s Turkish passport was revoked in 2017. Now, Sabah said, prosecutors are seeking an Interpol “red notice” citing Kanter’s ties to Fethullah Gulen, an exiled Muslim cleric who is blamed by the Turkish government for a failed coup in the country in 2016. The prosecutors also accused Kanter of providing financial support to the so-called Gulen movement, Sabah said.When Kanter announced on Jan. 4 that he would not travel with the Knicks, who play the Washington Wizards at the O2 arena on Thursday, he said he feared assassination if he left the United States or Canada.“The N.B.A. provides a big platform to shed light on the human rights violations in Turkey and gives a voice to the thousands of people persecuted,” Kanter said in an interview with The New York Times last week. “This platform allows me to speak my mind.”The team said at the time Kanter would not make the trip because of a visa issue.Kanter denied that was the problem, posting a photo of a travel document on social media and making it clear his concern was danger from agents of Erdogan, whom he has referred to as “the Hitler of our century.”“They’ve got a lot of spies there,” Kanter said. “I think I can get killed there easy. It would be a very ugly situation.”Turkish officials, including the former N.B.A. player Hidayet Turkoglu, who is now a chief adviser to Erdogan, have dismissed his fears.“He is trying to get the limelight with irrational justifications and political remarks,” Turkoglu, who went by Hedo in the N.B.A., said on Twitter.But Kanter told The Times last week that death threats had been “coming a lot more and more every day.”“I was scared,” he added. “I’m not going to lie.”Since the Knicks went overseas, Kanter has posted a number of photographs of himself meeting with members of Congress. He also wrote an opinion piece in The Washington Post explaining his decision and his reasons for standing against Erdogan.“My decision not to travel to London was difficult from a competitive standpoint but much easier from a safety one,” he wrote. “It helps puts a spotlight on how a dictator is wrecking Turkey — people have been killed, thousands are unjustly imprisoned, and countless lives have been ruined. That is no game.”The Associated Press contributed to this report.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byMichigan State 68, Duke 67By Marc TracyWASHINGTON — Cassius Winston held the ball and ran with it as time expired, looking more like an elusive Michigan State running back than a point guard as he evaded all last-second attempts to foul him. The top overall seed, the one with the most dominant freshman in years, was about to fall.Winston had just played every second of the game. With 20 points and 10 assists, the junior was the second-seeded Spartans’ best player against top-seeded Duke in Sunday’s regional final.But without heroics from all its players, Michigan State would have been merely forgettable roadkill on Duke’s inexorable path.There was Xavier Tillman. With just over a minute left, he scored 5 points on two shots and a free throw, cutting the deficit to 1 point.There was Kenny Goins, who swished a 3-pointer to create a 2-point lead with just 34 seconds left.Now, it’s the Spartans who seem like favorites as an unpredictable second weekend winnowed the men’s college basketball universe down to just four teams. And the Blue Devils are going home, with Zion Williamson likely heading to the N.B.A.“At the end, we made some winning plays,” Winston said afterward. “That’s what it’s all about this time of year.”Michigan State’s 68-67 victory sent the team to Coach Tom Izzo’s eighth Final Four, in search of its third national title following ones in 1979 and 2000. That latter came under Izzo, while the former was courtesy of point guard Magic Johnson, the legendary Los Angeles Lakers executive who could be seen cheering his alma mater on in the stands on Sunday.The Spartans (32-6), this year’s Big Ten champion, will face third-seeded Texas Tech (30-6), the Big 12 regular season co-champion, in a national semifinal on Saturday, April 6, in Minneapolis. The winner of that game will play the winner of the other semifinal, between No. 5-seeded Auburn (30-9) and No. 1-seeded Virginia (33-3), in the championship game on April 8.The win was just Izzo’s second against Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski in his career. He is now 2-11 versus his fellow Hall of Famer.After surviving its last two games by a combined 3 points, Duke’s road ended in Capital One Arena, a place where, given the Washington Wizards’ poor record, one of Duke’s likely freshman lottery picks could well play home games next year.Maybe it will be R.J. Barrett, who finished with 21 points, 6 assists and 6 rebounds, going 3-for-6 from deep. Or perhaps the future Washingtonian will be Cam Reddish, who missed the Virginia Tech game with knee tendinitis but looked spry while contributing 8 points and 4 rebounds in 37 minutes.Of course, should Washington end up with the top pick, then the Wizard will be Williamson, who even in defeat proved to be the best player on the court, leading all players with 24 points (on 19 shots) along with 14 rebounds, 3 blocks and 3 steals.Barrett and Williamson appeared dazed at the postgame news conference. Duke had only two losses all season aside from the six games that Williamson missed when he sprained his knee after his sneaker blew out in the opening seconds of a game versus North Carolina.“You look around the locker room, see your teammates, your brothers,” Williamson said. “You think, this group, they’ll probably never play together again.”It was a game of runs in the first half turned a nail-biter in the second. Duke started slowly, then bolted back with a vengeance, at one point going on a 21-5 run and leading by as many as nine. Michigan State closed the half with 10 unanswered points, and entered halftime up by four.Duke fought back. Williamson scored Duke’s first 10 points of the second half, and gave Duke a 4-point lead with fewer than 12 minutes left when he hit his second 3-pointer.The game slowed from there until Michigan State established that 2-point lead with 34 seconds left. Duke recovered the ball after a missed 3-pointer, and Barrett drove and was fouled with about five seconds left.Barrett missed the first free throw, but made the second — a tactical error, since Duke did not have enough fouls to put Michigan State immediately on the line. Barrett later said he had intended to miss, but it bounced off the iron and fell in.A deliberate Duke foul led to a second inbound, which Winston caught and dribbled speedily up the court and then back again, in a long arc, away from Duke’s defenders, toward his own joyous teammates, into history.An earlier version of this article misstated the game that Cam Reddish missed. It was the Virginia Tech game, not the Louisiana State game.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreBy Victor MatherThe Knicks won a basketball game Thursday night. That has not happened since Jan. 4.There won’t be a ticker-tape parade, but it was a surprise. This, after all, has been a really bad season for the Knicks.They are 11-47. The win, over the Atlanta Hawks, 106-91, broke an 18-game losing streak, which was a franchise record.The team traded away its most popular player by far, Kristaps Porzingis, and in return got a rookie and a couple of expiring contracts. The deal also meant the cancellation of the coming Latvian Heritage Night at Madison Square Garden, which frankly was shaping up to be one of the highlights of the season.To be fair, a core of loyalists insist that these Knicks are a fun bunch to watch. And there is optimistic talk for next year.The Knicks are bad enough to have a decent shot at the top draft pick, probably Zion Williamson, Duke’s superstar big man. Cap space will allow the team to seek big-name free agents, and there is sunny speculation that the team could land stars like Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving or even both.We’ll see about that. But for now, fans are left pondering if the Knicks are historically dreadful or just run-of-the-mill dreadful.Let’s see how the Knicks rate, at least in the current century.That means this year’s Knicks won’t have to compete against the consensus worst team of them all, the legendary 9-73 Philadelphia 76ers of 1972-73.Despite a couple of 50-win seasons, in 2000 and 2013, the Knicks’ winning percentage this century is .416, worst in the N.B.A. Yes, even worse than the Washington Wizards, and Charlotte Hornets, and even the Nets.Here is how the 2018-19 Knicks stack up.This is where it begins and ends. Wins. Losses. But mostly losses. Lots and lots of losses.The Knicks are 11-47, giving them a winning percentage that looks like a typo: .190.But there were worse seasons in the last 20 years. In 2012, the Bobcats (now the Hornets) finished at 7-59 in a lockout season for a .106 percentage.Over a full season, the 76ers in 2016, in full tanking mode, only barely managed to break double digit wins with a 10-72 record.The Knicks are only 11th worst.Even counting just those streaks that are contained in a single season, the Knicks’ 18-gamer comes up short. The 2011 Cleveland Cavaliers and the 2014 76ers both managed to stumble to 26 straight losses. After Thursday’s win, the Knicks have lost their chance at that ignominious record.The Knicks have been outscored by 8.7 points in an average game this season.Again, there have been worse teams. The 2012 Charlotte strike team lost by 13.9 points a game. The 2000 Clippers put up minus-11.5 over a full season.The Knicks are only 25th.There are those Sixers again: In 2015, they shot .408 for the season. At .430, the Knicks are 39th.The 2009 Grizzlies had only 17.4 assists per game, trailed closely by the 2006 Knicks of Larry Brown, Stephon Marbury and notorious nonpasser Eddy Curry.This season’s Knicks aren’t good, but they aren’t really bad, at 19.9, for 91st place.It is not a good time for defensive stats in the N.B.A. Using the metric points allowed per 100 possessions, three teams this season are in the top five of the century: The Cavaliers are allowing 117 points per 100, worst of the era, and indeed for as far back as Basketball-Reference’s stats go. Over the last 20 years, this season‘s Suns are second, and the Knicks, at 113.4, are seventh.Do any of this year’s Knicks individually reach truly humiliating marks? Not really.Frank Ntilikina’s .342 shooting percentage is poor certainly, but it is only 24th worst among players with 15 minutes a game and 40 games played, a lot better than DeShawn Stevenson’s .285 from the 2012 Nets.So we are forced to conclude, that while dispiritingly bad, the Knicks come up short in another way too. They are not even really close to being the worst team of the last 20 years.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — To celebrate their first home win in 25 days, the Lakers on Sunday dropped streamers that had been collecting dust from the ceiling at Staples Center. The final lineup of the night included Alex Caruso, a 25-year-old guard who spent most of the season in the N.B.A.’s developmental G League.Caruso knows things were not supposed to be this way. His mere presence — in a crunchtime situation, no less — was a vivid sign that the season had gone sideways for the Lakers, who will be watching the playoffs from various vacation destinations.Caruso also knows that the Lakers are playing fairly meaningless games, including Sunday’s 111-106 victory over the Sacramento Kings. The Lakers (32-41) have nine more of these to go, starting Tuesday against the Washington Wizards. The buzz of LeBron James’s first season as a Laker is gone. The roster will be overhauled again this summer as the franchise, which has not been to the playoffs since 2013, rummages for solutions.“But for me,” Caruso said, “these games are really meaningful.”The Lakers are searching for motivation wherever they can find it, especially as they head toward an off-season of uncertainty. Coach Luke Walton’s job status is tenuous at best, and 10 players on the current roster do not have guaranteed deals for next season. Some of them, like Caruso, are trying to showcase their skills in hopes of acquiring N.B.A. work next season.“I think this little stretch has been really good,” Caruso said, “because it’s finally allowed me to put all that work I’ve put in over the last two years and show how much I’ve evolved as a player. That I’m gaining confidence and making strides to get better and better.” In 16 appearances for the Lakers this season, Caruso has shot 44.6 percent from the field, averaging 6 points and 2.2 rebounds.Even players who figure to be a part of the franchise’s future are focusing on personal growth. A team is always a collection of individuals, but the Lakers’ late-season emphasis on “me” is particularly understandable.“I need to use these games to develop myself and play with the ball more,” the second-year forward Kyle Kuzma said recently.The Lakers were not yet mathematically eliminated from playoff contention when they lost to the Knicks at Madison Square Garden on March 17 — that would happen five days later — but Kuzma stood by his locker in a red leather jumpsuit after the game and spoke about the immediate future.“I’m just trying to use these last 13, 14 games — whatever we have — to just try to develop good habits,” he said. “Season’s pretty much over, so that’s the only thing I can really do. Everyone knows I’m a good scorer and I can do that. I’m just trying to complete my game.”Then there are the injured players who have largely disappeared from view: Lonzo Ball, Brandon Ingram, Josh Hart. For them, the end of this season is about rehabbing for the next one.After all the losses, injuries and general dysfunction, Walton continues to preach the importance of team play. Same as ever.“It starts with our effort and how we play and how we compete,” he said. “And our guys have been doing a nice job of that, even though we haven’t been winning games. Whatever lineups we’ve been putting out there, they’re giving what they have. So that’s the No. 1 thing.”As for James, these are his first truly inconsequential games since his rookie season with the Cleveland Cavaliers, who finished well out of playoff contention. But even then, he could use the end of the season as an opportunity to hone his abilities and gain experience for future endeavors — such as eight consecutive trips to the N.B.A. Finals.So it is a credit to James, even as the grease fire of his first season with the Lakers smolders, that he is out there — trying. Against the Kings, he finished with his 81st career triple-double: 29 points, 11 assists, 11 rebounds. How does he sustain the motivation?“If he’s out there on the court, he’s going to give what he has,” Walton said. “That’s probably a better question for him, but I’m getting to know him, and that’s the type of person he is: He respects and loves the game. So if he’s going to play, he’s going to give what he has.”James said he appreciated the fans who continued to show up. He also said he owed it to himself to play with genuine effort.“I’ve always respected the basketball gods,” James said, “and if I’m on the floor, I got to try to play as hard as I can or do something to affect the game and not cheat the game.”Still, times have changed for the Lakers, who have not been to the playoffs since 2013. Before that, they routinely fixated on the Western Conference standings and the number of wins they would need to make the playoffs. Now, the most important number in their universe is 3 percent — as in, their odds of winning the N.B.A. draft lottery.Then again, the Lakers are not the only team that has so little at stake at this stage of the season. Look no further than the Kings, whose push for a playoff berth has deteriorated in recent weeks. Before Sunday’s game, Coach Dave Joerger held a brief news conference. No one had much to ask.“I can give you some more stuff,” he said. “I mean, it’s sunny out. It’s spring. It smells like March Madness, Lent and the N.B.A. playoffs. Get the seedings, get it done. Exciting times.”He paused again.“Nothing else?” he asked.Nothing else.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherTiger Woods hadn’t won a major in 11 years. He had struggled through injury and personal crises. He was dismissed as finished, his years of dominance fading into memory.Then on Sunday he won the Masters again, at age 43.When athletes begin to fade, it’s usually all over. But a select few have returned in triumph, defying setbacks or Father Time.The comeback most people thought of when Woods won Sunday was the Masters victory by Jack Nicklaus at age 46 in 1986. Nicklaus had not won a major in six years and became the oldest player to win the Masters.Even more incredible was the return of Ben Hogan at the 1950 U.S. Open. His car had collided head-on with a Greyhound bus in Texas in 1949, and Hogan was nearly killed. After two months in the hospital, and a year recovering, he returned to golf and won the Open. He added five more major championships over the next three years.After three straight championships with the Chicago Bulls from 1991 to ’93, Michael Jordan decided to give baseball a try. A .200 batting average in the minor leagues made him a figure of ridicule for many fans and commentators, and the N.B.A. moved on.Then as abruptly as he retired, Jordan came back in 1995. In his first three full seasons, the Bulls won three more titles. Jordan retired again in 1999, generally considered the best player in basketball history. (A second comeback, with the Washington Wizards, was less successful.)After Muhammad Ali declined to serve in the military during the Vietnam War, he was stripped of his heavyweight title and was unable to box for three years.When he was able to get relicensed in 1970, he resumed a career that is regularly cited as the greatest. He regained his title in 1974 and battled through three immortal fights against Joe Frazier.George Foreman, from whom Ali recaptured the heavyweight title in 1974, hung up the gloves in 1977. But 10 years later, at 38, he decided to return to the ring. After a series of wins, he got a shot at the title at age 42, but lost to Evander Holyfield. He kept boxing, though, and got another improbable title shot in 1994 at 45 years old. Incredibly, he beat the champion, Michael Moorer, and won three more fights before losing in his final bout in 1997 at age 48.Roger Federer’s win at the Australian Open in 2017, at age 35, was his first major title in five years and capped a comeback from back injuries and knee surgery. Beating Rafael Nadal in that final showed Federer could defeat the younger rivals who had flummoxed him during his drought. In 2018, he won the Australian Open again, for his 20th major title, and returned to No. 1.Jennifer Capriati was written off after her career as a teen star was derailed by personal problems. She quit the tour for two years and dropped out of the rankings. But she returned in 1996 a more mature player and won the Australian Open in 2001 at 24. She became world No. 1 and added two more Grand Slam titles.But the most inspiring tennis comeback undoubtedly belonged to Monica Seles, who was stabbed by a deranged fan on the court in 1993. She was 19, No. 1 and an eight-time major singles champion at the time. Seles struggled with her injuries and with understandable anxiety after the attack. Still, she returned to win the 1996 Australian Open and make three other Grand Slam finals.Quarterback Doug Williams helped lead the Tampa Bay Buccaneers to the 1979 N.F.C. championship game. But after a salary dispute in 1982, he left to join the fledgling U.S.F.L.When that league folded, Williams caught on as a backup to Jay Schroeder for the Washington Redskins in 1987. But Williams earned the starting job just before the playoffs and led the team to a Super Bowl title, the first black quarterback ever to do so.Aldiniti was a solid steeplechaser in Britain in the late 1970s before sustaining a bad leg injury. At about the same time, the jockey Bob Champion learned he had testicular cancer. Once both had recovered, they were paired for the 1981 Grand National and won it. Their triumph was turned into a 1984 movie, “Champions,” starring John Hurt.Honorable mention goes to Da Hoss. He won the 1996 Breeders’ Cup Mile, then raced only once in two years. Yet in his return to the Mile in 1998, he won it again, causing the race announcer Tom Durkin to proclaim it “the greatest comeback since Lazarus.”Greg LeMond became the first American to win the Tour de France in 1986 and seemed poised to reel off several more. But the next year he was accidentally shot while turkey hunting, hit by several dozen pellets, including some in his heart lining.He returned to the Tour in 1989 in poor form and was considering retirement. But he strengthened as the race went along and won it in one of the most famous finishes ever, beating his rival Laurent Fignon in a time trial on the Champs-Élysées. The final margin was the closest in history: eight seconds. LeMond went on to win another Tour the next year.Tommy John had a strong 12-year career as a pitcher for the Indians, White Sox and Dodgers. But in 1974 he sustained an injury to the ulnar collateral ligament of the elbow, which usually meant the end of pitchers’ careers.John decided to try an untested, speculative surgery, now known as Tommy John surgery. In the procedure, now routine, a tendon from elsewhere in the patient is removed and replaces the damaged one in the elbow.John missed the 1975 season, but returned the next season at 33. He had three more All-Star appearances and three 20-game win seasons before finally retiring in 1989 at 46.An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to Jack Nicklaus’s win at the 1986 Masters at age 46. It made him the oldest man to win the Masters, not the oldest man to win a golf major. (Julius Boros was 48 when he won the 1968 P.G.A. Championship.)Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Howard MegdalWhen Breanna Stewart, the reigning W.N.B.A. most valuable player, was carried off the floor of the Euroleague championship game in Hungary last weekend with a ruptured Achilles’ tendon, her pain was not just her own.“I love Stewie and was heartbroken to hear about her injury, especially coming off an unbelievable W.N.B.A. season and World Cup,” Elena Delle Donne, the Washington Mystics star and a former league most valuable player, said. “She’s just a great player, competitor and friend. She will be missed this year, but I know she will come back stronger than ever.”Stewart is not only a beloved player for the Seattle Storm; she is also a prominent symbol of an enduring issue in professional women’s basketball in the United States: Its players’ seasons never end.A rookie selected in this month’s W.N.B.A. draft will make $41,265 to $53,537 in base salary, and nobody in the league will earn a base salary of as much as $120,000 this coming season.Because of that, many of the 144 players in the W.N.B.A. maximize their earning window by heading to Europe and Asia, where independent owners, free of salary caps, can offer them lucrative opportunities.There is a price to pay, however: endless seasons bleeding into one another; a physical, psychological and emotional toll; and, the players say, a heightened risk of injury.A few weeks ago, Victoria Vivians, a 2018 first-round pick of the Indiana Fever, tore her anterior cruciate ligament playing in Israel. She, like Stewart, will miss the 2019 W.N.B.A. season.These were only the biggest, latest injuries. Consider one by Amanda Zahui B., the Liberty center, who plays for Sopron Basket in Hungary.“I just twisted my ankle really bad,” she said in a phone interview in the past week. “It’s a swollen potato. But I got to practice through it. We don’t really have the time to take off. Everyone twists their ankles. Everyone gets bone bruises in their knees and such.”All of which elevates the question of how much W.N.B.A. players are paid, and whether a framework can be established to keep more of them in the United States during the league’s off-season.“I’ve always said, everybody that plays overseas in the W.N.B.A. needs therapy,” Mystics guard Kristi Toliver, who spent a decade on the hamster wheel of women’s professional basketball before being hired this off-season as an assistant coach for the N.B.A.’s Washington Wizards, said ahead of her 11th W.N.B.A. campaign. “It’s just a real thing — just so much that you go through with the travel and, being away from loved ones, family or significant others, and trying to manage and deal with all these different things that are coming at you.“But you have a high-level job and you have to perform well in order to keep it.”Ending the financial need for nonstop play is a prime focus of Terri Jackson, president of the Women’s National Basketball Players Association. It appears the league is supportive as well, which is not surprising, given that the quality of play would most likely rise and players who remained in their home market could promote their teams year-round.“I think it’s a dream, a goal, of the union to grow the league to the point where players can work in it year-round and not have to endure the risks and the rigors of overseas play, of that 12-month calendar,” Jackson said. “It’s a matter that concerns me. It’s a matter that is top of mind for the executive committee and our larger C.B.A. committee.”That focus is particularly important right now, after the players’ association opted out of its collective bargaining agreement with the league late last year. So the injury to Stewart, while reflecting a longstanding reality, has also shed new light on the way these players earn a living.“First and foremost, our thoughts are with Breanna and we wish her a speedy recovery,” Mark Tatum, the acting W.N.B.A. president and N.B.A. deputy commissioner, said in an email. “The W.N.B.A. and its teams and players share a commitment to growing the league’s business and building on our ongoing work to provide greater professional opportunities for players in the off-season.”The league has good reason to want a pathway to limiting, if not ending, overseas play from players: The teams are consistently affected by the toll it takes on its players.“The year-round play for W.N.B.A. players is a detriment to the W.N.B.A. product,” Minnesota Lynx Coach Cheryl Reeve said. “The physical and mental toll it takes on the league’s elite players is reflected in some of the league’s best sitting out the W.N.B.A. season to ‘rest,’ as well as these players sustaining injuries.”Reeve said the rest, which cuts into the W.N.B.A. season, is critical for elite players who “are asked to perform at their highest levels day in and day out at home and abroad.”“It isn’t possible to sustain an elite level without these breaks,” she said.The new way forward can take many forms, with changes in the base salary merely one of the tools available. Toliver, for instance, is coaching in the N.B.A. this season, but, because of restrictive rules in place from the previous C.B.A., is making just $10,000 to do so. A comprehensive pathway to getting W.N.B.A. players more opportunities on N.B.A. coaching staffs and in front offices during the W.N.B.A. off-season could significantly change the calculation for players by itself.Jackson spoke optimistically about how that process was going, though even the work to keep her own side informed requires time-zone gymnastics with her leadership scattered all over the world.“We could have a meeting at 10 a.m. or at 10 p.m., Eastern time, just because we have folks in, or we’ve had folks in, Russia and Poland and China, Turkey,” Jackson said. “And so my executive committee just says get it done, so that’s what we do.” She recalled an executive committee member, Nneka Ogwumike, jumping on a call from China at midnight.The two sides have until the conclusion of the 2019 season to come to an agreement.“The league has also signaled its willingness, its desire, to have a really collaborative relationship with the players, and to hear and to understand the concerns, and how to make this better,” Jackson said. “This is good forward movement. I think that’s where we are.”That comes as welcome news to players like A’ja Wilson, who has followed Stewart’s path in many ways. Stewart was the top overall pick in 2016; Wilson in 2018. Like Stewart, Wilson won an N.C.A.A. championship, then was the W.N.B.A. rookie of the year. And like Stewart, Wilson went straight from college ball to the W.N.B.A. to a stint overseas last year, in China, before an injury ended her season.“It’s definitely not an easy route at all,” Wilson said. “I think that’s what makes us just that elite as professional athletes. Because our bodies take on so much, but yet we still perform every single game. I mean, when Stewie got hurt she was in the championship game. She was playing at the highest level that she could overseas. It broke my heart.”Wilson, too, expressed hope that Stewart’s injury would “shine a light” on this scheduling issue. Zahui B. agreed, though she doesn’t have much time to worry about it: Her team is in the Hungarian league semifinals. If her team sweeps, she said, she will finish her season on May 2, then fly home to Sweden to see her family on May 3, before reporting to New York for training camp with the Liberty by May 8. On May 9, she will be at Barclays Center for New York’s first preseason game, against the Chinese national team.She said she was looking forward to playing in the best women’s professional league in the world. But as she attends to her aching ankle, she also echoed her fellow players on just how much better the league, and the professional experience, could be with some rest.And Toliver, who has now lived it, knows firsthand how right they are.“I feel that now, entering the summer, I’m going to be so much more prepared to do so much more,” Toliver said. “With what I was able to do with the off-season, I feel that the summer is going to be a breeze.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreJames’s first season with the Lakers has been disappointing, but passing his idol in career scoring goes beyond winning and losing.By Benjamin HoffmanThere was no Instagram post celebrating the achievement in advance this time. There was relatively little buildup from the news media. It was an event that might have dominated the news cycle in years’ past, but when LeBron James passed Michael Jordan on the N.B.A.’s career scoring list on Wednesday night, it was a triumph that somehow had been reduced to a footnote.James came into the Los Angeles Lakers’ game against the Denver Nuggets needing 13 points to surpass Jordan for fourth place on the career list. With 5 minutes 38 seconds remaining in the second quarter, he managed to force his way to the basket for a layup, giving him 14 points for the game and 32,294 for his career. For good measure, he was fouled on the play. After a short stoppage to acknowledge the moment, play resumed as the Lakers, clinging to the last shreds of their playoff hopes, tried their best to overcome a huge early deficit at home against a heavily favored opponent.LeBron passes Michael Jordan on all-time scoring list pic.twitter.com/G2tAovqMrzThe Lakers, led by an unlikely group of bench players, did make a run at Denver, reducing a 17-point deficit at halftime to 2 points with 8:37 left in the fourth quarter. But the Nuggets regained their footing and ran away with a 115-99 victory, spoiling a night in which James contributed 31 points, 7 rebounds and 7 assists, looking far more energized on both ends of the court than he had in recent weeks, and finishing the night with his career point total up to 32,311. James, who has taken the brunt of the criticism for the Lakers’ failings in a difficult first year in Los Angeles, had acknowledged the pending accomplishment in a tweet shortly before the game, but was measured when discussing it with reporters earlier in the day.“I take all accomplishments as they come,” he said. “Any time I’m in the breath with any other greats — and obviously M.J. being the guy that I looked up to my whole life, the guy I admired as a kid — I think it’s going to be pretty cool.”Jordan, who owns the Charlotte Hornets, issued a brief statement on Thursday, saying, “I want to congratulate LeBron on achieving another great milestone during his amazing career.” The statement was notable mostly for being far more succinct than the one he issued when Kobe Bryant passed him on the career scoring list in 2014.One would hardly have guessed from either man’s words that the greatest current basketball player had just surpassed his idol in their sport’s signature statistic. The inability for James to truly celebrate the moment was yet another indignity in a season full of them.It was a little more than a year ago when James had seemingly settled into a groove. He scored his 30,000th point — a feat he congratulated himself about on Instagram hours before he actually accomplished it. With that hurdle cleared, and with recent championship runs in Miami and Cleveland under his belt, his march toward challenging Jordan, then Bryant, then Karl Malone and maybe even Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, the N.B.A.’s career scoring leader, seemed as if it would come without the criticism that had followed him earlier in his career.A decision — a loaded word when it comes to James — to move to an ill-prepared Lakers team in the off-season has changed the calculus altogether. The team was predicted by most to struggle to make the playoffs in the West thanks to its collection of too-young players and veterans who do not complement James. Nevertheless, many have labeled the year a disappointment by virtue of the team’s struggles despite having James, a player whose presence has seemingly guaranteed a finals appearance for close to a decade.As a result, James and the people around him have not been able to take much joy in his accomplishments. Just last week he passed Andre Miller to move into 10th place in career assists, thus making him the only player currently in the top 10 in both career points and assists. That feat — it had been temporarily attained by only a handful of other players going back to the days of Bob Cousy — was met with a collective shrug.It is a reality of James’s life that he acknowledged on Wednesday.“I haven’t really appreciated anything I’ve been able to accomplish because I’m so engulfed in what’s next,” he said. “How I can continue to get better; how I can help this franchise get back to where it needs to be.”An occasional season of missing the playoffs is not unusual for most players — even the great ones — but to capture how truly rare it would be for a James-led team, consider that he has played double-digit playoff games in each of the last 13 years. He has appeared in nine N.B.A. finals — winning three — and as a result his career rankings among playoff performers come off as outrageous, even for someone as accomplished as James. Those rankings almost certainly will not improve this year. But among the more interesting aspects of James’s current predicament is the opinion among many Lakers fans that the team’s struggles have resulted in James’s failing to live up to Bryant’s legacy. Those criticisms ignore the fact that the Lakers’ current six-year run of missing the playoffs included three seasons in which Bryant was still with the team. In fact, when Bryant passed Jordan on the career scoring list in 2014 — a feat considered a big enough deal at the time that a road game in Minnesota was stopped for several minutes so the crowd could give him a standing ovation and the Timberwolves’ owner could present him with the game ball — the Lakers were only 8-16 and, partially a result of a season-ending injury to Bryant later in the year, were on their way to a 21-61 record.But in one of the endless parallels between the careers of Jordan and James, players who will be debated long after both are gone, Jordan, who passed Wilt Chamberlain for No. 3 on the career scoring list in 2003, also found little joy in what should have been a huge accomplishment, largely because his Washington Wizards were a .500 team at the time. “The thing about stats is they define you when you’re 10 or 20 years past the game,” Jordan said when asked to sum up his feelings on the accomplishment. “While you’re playing, what matters is wins.”James, who wears No. 23 because of Jordan, put a wristband on his forearm because of Jordan, learned to shoot fadeaways because of Jordan and pitches sneakers for Nike just like Jordan does, may want to heed that advice from Jordan in terms of coming back on his accomplishments later, even if they have to be put aside for now. The Lakers could never win another game and James, a player who still refuses to label himself a scorer, will always have more points than Jordan, the player who served as his inspiration on a path to greatness. “I gotta carry it on to the next kid,” James said after the game, finally letting his emotion truly show. “Hopefully I can inspire the next kid like myself.”An earlier version of this article misstated the time in the game when LeBron James moved to fourth on the N.B.A.'s career scoring list. It was with 5:38 left in the second quarter, not 5:38 into the second quarter.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byStars being added to Eastern Conference powerhouses drew most of the headlines, but there were other moves that could prove significant.By Benjamin HoffmanN.B.A. fans can be forgiven for being distracted by shiny objects. And there are few objects shinier than a star who is being added to a playoff contender.But even though the powerhouses of the Eastern Conference went to war over which team could add the biggest piece, it is worth taking a look at some under-the-radar moves that could prove significant this season or in the near future. Amid the flurry of moves this week, these three deals stood out as opportunities for players to thrive in situations far more advantageous to their careers than where they had been, which could end up paying significant dividends to the teams that acquired them.The Magic are trading Jonathon Simmons, a first-round pick and a second-round pick to the Philadelphia 76ers for Fultz, according to The Athletic.Why it matters: The very public breakdown of Fultz’s career has made any move involving him relevant. A consensus No. 1 pick in the 2017 draft after a terrific freshman season at Washington, Fultz was viewed by Philadelphia as the endgame of the team’s long-running Process. The Sixers traded the No. 3 pick in that draft (which ended up being Jayson Tatum) and a future first-round pick (likely to be Sacramento’s pick in this year’s draft) to Boston so they could move up two spots to get him.Things fell apart almost immediately. Fultz’s shooting form went from quirky to horrendous, debates emerged as to whether he had been injured or had simply lost his confidence, and he played just 14 games last season and 19 this season before shutting down with a diagnosis of thoracic outlet syndrome.No one knows what Fultz is capable of, but it had become painfully obvious that he was not going to have the opportunity to play his way through his problems with the Sixers, a team that believes it has a legitimate chance of winning the East this year.In Orlando, the pressure should be turned down considerably. The team values length, and while Fultz is a modest 6-foot-4, he has a seven-foot wingspan and has at times shown flashes of brilliance, including during a game last April in which he became the first teenager to officially record a triple-double in the N.B.A.In this week’s trade, Philadelphia managed to land a few picks to replace what it gave up to be able to draft Fultz. But Simmons is primarily filler to make the trade work, and the move is mostly about clearing an unproductive player off the Sixers’ roster and letting him try to find a better situation elsewhere. As Fultz looks to avoid joining Anthony Bennett and LaRue Martin as the biggest busts to be taken with the No. 1 overall pick, Orlando seems as good of a place as any to get started.The Kings traded Justin Jackson and Zach Randolph to the Dallas Mavericks for Barnes.Why it matters: The Kings entered Thursday night’s games as the No. 9 seed in the West, one and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers and one game ahead of the Los Angeles Lakers. With the Clippers having just traded Tobias Harris, the door is open for Sacramento to secure its first playoff spot since 2006.Sacramento plays extraordinarily fast, partly as a result of repeatedly using lineups with three guards, but they play at a significant size disadvantage.Enter Barnes, a 6-8 small forward who gives the team a bigger body without requiring the offense to slow down all that much.It’s hard to remember after three productive-if-uninspiring seasons in Dallas, but Barnes was once a member of Golden State’s ultrafluid Death Lineup, and if he can get back to a 3-and-D style of play, he could be a perfect addition to the Kings’ starting five, though that does not mean the deal is without drawbacks.First and foremost, Barnes has been used to a high-usage role in Dallas, and that will not be available to him in Sacramento, a team with an offensive pecking order that will make him a third option at best. He also has let his defense slide to the point where he was a net negative on the court for Dallas. The Kings will probably be on the hook for his $25.1 million player option next year, and if he isn’t on board to shift his style of play, he could make the team worse.All of that said, Barnes is still just 26, and after winning a championship in his third season, and 73 regular-season games in his fourth year, he has not sniffed the playoffs since. A return to a relevant team could unlock the complementary player who helped Golden State soar, and for a franchise that has often been accused of sabotaging itself, this is a real attempt to make the team better.The Bulls traded Jabari Parker and Bobby Portis to the Washington Wizards for Porter. Why it matters: Neither team is going anywhere this season, but Chicago is trying to set up the team’s future by acquiring Porter, a player with loads of potential — and an enormous contract — who has sometimes failed to click in Washington.Porter, a 25-year-old forward who has plenty of size at 6-8, has seen his statistics decline this season, at least in part because of the overall decline of the Wizards. But at his best, he is capable of shooting better than 40 percent from 3-point range while also contributing rebounding and passing. For an example of why Chicago would take a flier on a frustrating player owed a great deal of money, look no further than one of the players he was traded for: Parker. Last off-season, the Bulls had money to spend and wanted to make a free-agent splash. Parker, a player known as much for being injury prone as for being defense-averse, was the best they could do. In Porter they pick up a young player with plenty of potential who is owed a little more than $27 million next season and has a player option of a bit less than $28.5 million in 2020-21. That is probably better than what Chicago could get on the open market, which makes it worth saying goodbye to Portis, a decent rotation player who was mostly wasted on a team that is several big pieces away from contention.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump abruptly walked out of a meeting on the government shutdown with Democratic leaders at the White House.“Just left a meeting with Chuck and Nancy, a total waste of time,” the president tweeted. “I asked what is going to happen in 30 days if I quickly open things up, are you going to approve Border Security which includes a Wall or Steel Barrier? Nancy said, NO. I said bye-bye, nothing else works!”Democrats said that the president had thrown a “temper tantrum.” Above, Senator Chuck Schumer after the meeting.For now, at least, the president’s forceful response has papered over cracks in Republican support that threatened to upend his negotiating position. And as a last resort, Mr. Trump has said he could declare a national emergency to build a border wall._____2. Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general overseeing the special counsel’s Russia investigation, is expected to leave his post after President Trump’s pick to lead the Justice Department is confirmed.Mr. Rosenstein has been a central figure in the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election and any ties to the Trump campaign — both for appointing Robert Mueller to lead it and for becoming a target of the president’s rage.Mr. Trump nominated William Barr to be attorney general after he fired Jeff Sessions. Confirmation hearings are scheduled to begin on Jan. 15.Separately, House Democrats now have the power to investigate Mr. Trump and his administration, but they’re moving in a slow, orderly manner. So don’t expect blockbuster findings anytime soon._____3. The British Parliament resumed debate on Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan. It’s virtually certain to be rejected in a crucial vote next week — and that could mean weeks of perilous political brinkmanship.In the past two days, Parliament has already delivered Mrs. May two setbacks. First, lawmakers passed an amendment requiring the prime minister to return within days of a losing vote with plans for proceeding. What kind of plan is unclear.Parliament also passed a measure making it difficult for Britain to leave the European Union without a deal. The prospects of a second public referendum on Brexit are rising, and there is even talk of delaying the March 29 departure date._____4. A group of 49 migrants who had been stranded at sea after being refused entry to European ports was finally allowed to dock in Malta.The asylum seekers, who had been living on a pair of rescue boats, will be settled among nine member states of the E.U. The migrants had previously been denied safe harbor by every national government bordering the Mediterranean Sea since their rescue in December.Our reporter went aboard the rescue ships, where he discovered the human impact of Europe’s hard-line migration policy shift._____5. For decades, a Chinese government campaign has promoted exercise to combat alarming rates of childhood obesity.But the initiative was notable for what it didn’t mention: the importance of cutting back on junk food and sugary beverages.It turns out that China’s fitness-first message has largely been the handiwork of Coca-Cola and other Western food and beverage giants, according to two new studies.The findings show how the food and beverage giants worked with key Chinese officials, through a nonprofit they financed, to stave off the growing movement for food regulation and soda taxes._____6. Larry Antonsen, above, decided to report a priest who sexually abused him during high school, and he ended up in a maze of church bureaucracy.The priest he was accusing happened to be an Augustinian, one of dozens of religious orders in the Catholic clergy. And the Chicago archdiocese told him to take his complaint to the Augustinians.Victims and advocacy groups say their accusations are often mishandled because they are caught between separate institutions within the church: The dioceses say it is not their responsibility to investigate, and religious orders fail to handle the claims._____7. When the Knicks arrive in London for a much anticipated exhibition game against the Washington Wizards next week, their center will be watching from his couch in New York.That’s because Enes Kanter, who is from Turkey, fears Turkish spies might kill him if he goes.Mr. Kanter is an outspoken critic of Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and has a close relationship with a cleric the Turkish government has accused of masterminding a bloody coup in 2016. Still, his latest statements are an escalation.Turkish officials have dismissed his comments as baseless. But Mr. Kanter said the fear was real — and personal: “I was scared. I’m not going to lie.”_____8. Televisions that roll up like yoga mats. 5G chips that can download an entire movie in seconds. Autonomous vehicles powered by artificial intelligence.Here’s a visual tour of CES, the world’s most important tech conference, with the hottest tech trends on display — and the abysmal stock market pushed firmly out of mind.Indeed, the Las Vegas consumer electronics conference underscored what the tech industry is best at, our columnist writes: being optimistic about itself._____9. A demographic revolution is quietly rippling across America: More older women are working, and loving it.Last week, Nancy Pelosi, 78, above, became the most powerful elected woman in U.S. history. Glenn Close, 71, won a best actress award at the Golden Globes. And when Susan Zirinsky, 66, takes over CBS News in March, she’ll be the first woman to hold the job (and the oldest person).In fact, nearly 30 percent of women 65 to 69 are working, up from 15 percent in the late 1980s, according to a recent Harvard study. And 18 percent of women 70 to 74 work, up from 8 percent. And it’s not that they have to work — they want to._____10. Finally, we end today daydreaming about where to travel next.The Times’s annual 52 Places to Go in 2019 includes Hampi in India, Eilat in Israel, above, and Japan’s Setouchi Islands. We also announced the lucky traveler who gets to see them all: Sebastian Modak, a veteran travel journalist who has lived all around the world.Our No. 1 place to visit this year is Puerto Rico. Still recovering from Hurricane Maria, the island represents so many fragile spots around the globe. Here’s how we picked the other destinations.Happy exploring._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Peter S. GoodmanLONDON — In theory at least, we understand the words on the sports radio we hear incessantly — in taxis, at the fish and chips place, at the corner newsstand. But we are foreigners here and the stories are inscrutable, full of happenings from cricket ovals and rugby pitches.Our sports focus is confined to our darkened living room, where my 7-year-old son, Leo, and I have lately been absorbing improbable happenings from the other side of the Atlantic — one exhilarating victory after another for our suddenly mighty Brooklyn Nets.This has become our early-morning ritual. Wife and daughter still asleep, the boys watch the action from the night before, the scores carefully hidden from our N.B.A. League Pass app lest we ruin the ending.We are basketball expatriates, two steps removed from the initial source of my N.B.A. obsession by a change of team loyalties and a move to London.In our North London surroundings, we may as well be rooting for a badminton team from Bhutan. While the odd LeBron James jersey can be spotted, our Brooklyn Nets gear seemingly fades into the sea of Yankees caps brought home by tourists returning from New York (oblivious to the hate they are inspiring from this Mets fan) and the endless Brooklyn-related mumbo jumbo that now adorns T-shirts worldwide.[Nets’ Run to the Playoffs Hits a Snag With Spencer Dinwiddie Injury]While N.F.L. gear is a common sighting, owing to the constant staging of American football games here, N.B.A. basketball is largely invisible. One imagines this was unaltered by the recent showdown of two of the league’s most dreadful teams, the Knicks and the Washington Wizards, inside London’s unlovable O2 arena. (We did not attend, just as we do not take leisure trips to see the dentist.)Our sports-related conversations with Britons tend to revolve around the astronomical ticket prices required to see Arsenal, the English Premier League soccer team Leo has decided that we love forever. Our Nets fandom is like membership in a secret society, whose disclosure would mark us as eccentric and produce puzzlement.Even my Knick fan friends back in New York do not want to hear about the Nets via email. My only real communion comes via obscure Nets-related podcasts I listen to while washing the dishes. When Bill Simmons and Zach Lowe devoted perhaps 3 minutes of a recent pod to the Nets surge, I confess to feelings of pride and validation I can only liken to a U.F.O. conspiracy theorist hearing that the government is probing the sighting of a flying saucer.My embrace of the Nets began seven years ago when the Knicks — the only team I had ever rooted for — shunned a gift from the basketball gods by letting Jeremy Lin leave town. It was the final indignity after years of atrocious basketball. I dumped my Knicks season tickets and adopted the fledgling club whose arena had just risen over my Brooklyn neighborhood.I did not do so lightly. As a born-and-bred New Yorker, I saw abandoning a team as a serious breach of the tribal code. I disdained fans from other cities who rooted for two teams in the same sport. I was unremittingly harsh to the worst transgressor of all: the bandwagon fan. (If that Steph Curry jersey you own was the first Warriors gear in your closet, yes, I’m talking about you.)But I was hopping on no bandwagon. With the exception of a pair of distant trips to the N.B.A. finals, the New Jersey-turned-Brooklyn Nets were a pathetic franchise. I was living in Brooklyn. My father had grown up in Queens and traveled on a streetcar to watch the Dodgers at Ebbets Field. I was not abandoning my tribe. I was returning to it.This is what I told myself as I began reading about the odd collection of players I was now rooting for, trying to divine the narrative that would make it real. I fought through a sense of exile in the slick, new Barclays Center, which was full of fans for whom the game itself appeared peripheral to the cool Brooklyn food, the dancing during timeouts, and whatever fascinating things were happening on their phones.Yes, it was a gorgeous arena with excellent sightlines and welcoming staff. The season tickets I bought the day the Knicks said goodbye to J-Lin put me in seats that were a 10-minute walk from my house in Prospect Heights. Madison Square Garden was a cramped dump reached via a creaking subway and a walk through the bowels of Penn Station.Yet there was something about the Garden, even as the Dolan era yielded a lost decade of basketball. The crowd understood. Hustle plays drew appreciation in an arena that had revered Charles Oakley. The energy was electric.In Brooklyn, the mostly mercenary fans got what we deserved: a team of past-their-prime castoffs imported by the bombastic Russian magnate, Mikhail Prokhorov, who had brought the franchise to Brooklyn. Vowing to spend whatever it took to eclipse the Knicks — a low bar — he built a bonfire of money at the corner of Flatbush and Atlantic.In came the wildly overpaid Joe Johnson, a seven-time All-Star. In came the mediocre Gerald Wallace in exchange for a first-round pick that Portland turned into Damian Lillard. The centerpiece was the sullen, out-of-shape Deron Williams who, in another lifetime, looked like the best point guard on earth, and whose passions no longer appeared to include basketball.They fit uneasily around the likable 7-footer, Brook Lopez, whose sweet shooting came along with rebounding and defensive skills that seemed better suited for other pursuits, like calligraphy.My history as a Knicks fan made the plan feel familiar. Win now, baby! The future was for losers. The oligarch was buying his way to competitiveness pronto. Leaving no doubt, the Nets soon traded every first-round pick until the sun dies for the remains of Paul Pierce and Kevin Garnett.When it all unraveled and the Nets descended into an unwatchable state, I hung in. You can not renounce the team of your life and then walk away from your new one because they are terrible. Real fandom is forged in suffering. Even when my family traded Brooklyn for London in 2016, we remained Nets fans.This happily coincided with another development: The Nets bucked the conventional wisdom that New York fans will not accept rebuilding and embraced patience.Sean Marks, the general manager, somehow turned a collection of mostly indifferent veterans into a raffish crew of young, hungry players led by a first-time head coach, Kenny Atkinson. They run at a ferocious pace, share the ball with grace, and play with joy.Since an excruciating eight-game losing streak, the Nets have won 18 of 23. Even from afar, we can tell that the intensity has changed at the Barclays, the Brooook-Lyyyyn chants filling our London living room.And still, an intense New York team deserves better. Back for the holidays, I took Leo to see New Orleans and their marquee star, Anthony Davis, at Barclays. The place was packed with tourists who seemed intent on taking selfies and buying Brooklyn gear at the swag shop.Whatever.On Saturday morning, we will sit on the couch in our pajamas, Leo and me, and see what happened against the now-hated, if pitiful, Knicks the night before.Please don’t tell us who won.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Joe DrapeEAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — Lisa Kerney once earned her living hosting “SportsCenter” on ESPN, making her a nightly fixture in the vast American conversation between sports fans and their favorite athletes, teams and leagues. Her latest endeavor, she believes, is just as all-American.Every Saturday, Kerney slips into the anchor’s chair of a very different kind of television program: a sports betting show from a makeshift studio at the Meadowlands Racetrack. Instead of reporting just scores and news, Kerney now also rattles off N.F.L. point spreads and money-line odds as easily as a CNBC host talks stock prices and P/E ratios.She will be on the air again this Sunday, serving up information on the New England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams in the hours before Super Bowl LIII. The game will take its place in American gambling history because, for the first time, bettors will be allowed to wager on the N.F.L.’s championship game legally, not only in Nevada but also in seven other states.By next year, gambling may be legal in more than a dozen more states, a shift that is already moving betting on games into the mainstream of American culture and teaching fans to look at the sports contests they love as investment opportunities as well as entertainment.“Now fans are able to play the game within the game,” Kerney said. “It goes beyond the nuts and bolts of who’s going to win. It is a whole new way of experiencing sports.”Last May, when the Supreme Court struck down a federal law that prohibited expanded sports gambling, it created — almost overnight — a billion-dollar market that bookmakers, media companies, tech entrepreneurs, touts and quants have rushed in to dominate.On the high end, that has meant sports shows that incorporate into their coverage market-moving information like injury reports and their effect on bettors. But it also means digital subscription services that make a tsunami of sports data available, and app makers eager to help bettors slice it.On the retail front, the innovations have been more basic: how-to-bet sports camps, cable shows that explain the difference between a proposition and parlay bets, and Nevada-based tout services — which for decades have picked winners for a price — that have suddenly refashioned themselves into media companies.“If you have a way to make betting more fun, or to otherwise increase consumer investment in betting, the market needs you,” said Chris Grove, a managing director at Eilers & Krejcik Gaming, an independent research firm. “If you have a way to salve any of the pain points for consumers in the regulated sports betting — the learning curve, hassles with payments, ensuring that you’re getting the price — then the market absolutely needs you.”As sports betting and bills are being shepherded through legislatures in at least 15 other states, the early returns show there is plenty of opportunity in what is a familiar but nascent industry. In New Jersey, for example, sportsbooks at Meadowlands Racetrack and their online counterparts have handled more than $1.2 billion in wagers since the market was born in mid-June, despite having only three brick-and-mortar outlets in the early going and no availability for online wagering until August. If retail and online wagering were to become accessible in all 50 states, Eilers & Krejcik predicted, sports betting in America could become a $16 billion industry.Figures from regulators in Mississippi and Rhode Island also show an upward trend. New Jersey is on pace to surpass Nevada in sports wagering. And though market oversaturation could eventually slow or halt the industry’s rapid growth, that is not a pressing concern.Legalized sports betting has already changed the way some fans consume sports. This month, NBC Sports Washington Plus, a regional sports network, offered an alternate telecast of several Washington Wizards games, starting with one against the Milwaukee Bucks, that looked like a cross between CNBC and ESPNews. Unlike most N.B.A. telecasts, the productions included statistics, odds and point spreads alongside the live action. It was a preview of what game telecasts may look like in a mature sports betting landscape.In two years, the Las Vegas-based Vegas Stats & Information Network (VSiN) has grown from a start-up streaming service with 1.4 million visitors to 12.6 million visitors a month — across video and audio streams like Sirius XM and fuboTV — seeking “actionable information” delivered by a roster of Las Vegas bookmakers and professional gamblers, including the longtime CBS broadcaster Brent Musburger.The Super Bowl, though, has been an integral part of America’s sporting fabric and a highlight of the betting year since long before the Supreme Court’s ruling last year made it legal in more jurisdictions.Last year, for example, $159 million was bet on the Super Bowl legally in Nevada, a respectable take for any business but one that paled in comparison to the estimates of the amount — as high as $4.6 billion — wagered on the game illegally. This year, with eight states now offering legal sports betting, projections for wagering on Sunday’s Super Bowl LIII have risen to more than $325 million, according to PlayUSA, which monitors the legal sports market. That haul is expected to soar as more states bring betting on games out of the realm of corner-bar bookies and offshore operators and onto their tax rolls.At the same time, the popularity of fantasy sports and the growing amounts of easily accessible data and analytics have not merely hastened the acceptance of sports betting: They have transformed the nature of fandom.“This is a generational thing, and what we’ve seen is a perfect storm develop over the last 20 years, with a boom in fantasy sports, the interest in ‘moneyball’ and the democracy of information through technology,” said Chad Millman, the chief content officer at The Action Network, a subscriber-based media company. “It’s meant that fans have become more opportunistic about their fandom. They think about winning individually, not about rooting for a team.”The Action Network runs a website and an app offering data, research and betting tools, as well as general coverage of sports and the nuances of cashing in on them. It also produces a betting show — called “I’ll Take That Bet” — for ESPN+, the sports broadcaster’s new streaming platform.Millman would not say how many subscribers the Action Network has in its first year, but since April, he said, users of the company’s app have logged 13 million bets, and the circulation of the Action Network’s email newsletter has grown nearly tenfold, to 240,000.“In general, sports fans want to be smarter than their friends,” Millman said. “As sports betting becomes more and more part of the conversation, people are trying to figure out what the language of it is.”For now at least, there is a difference between a general sports audience and sports betting audience, a gap Kerney, the former “SportsCenter” anchor, is trying to navigate on her show, created by the bookmaker FanDuel, from the Meadowlands.“Most sports bettors will notice every second on or off the clock, every yard, every pitch, every shot, because any of these can ultimately affect their bets,” said Kevin Grigsby, the show’s executive producer. “So your story, programming, messaging needs narrative that caters to both cohorts.”Kerney and Grigsby’s bosses at FanDuel are making a big bet that they can close that gap quickly. FanDuel is owned by the European bookmakers Paddy Power, as is TVG, the cable network that is home to Kerney’s show. TVG reaches 40 million homes and gives horseplayers wall-to-wall coverage of races that they can bet on through a proprietary website or app. As sports betting expands, TVG is poised to also expand programming like Kerney’s show. FanDuel already takes bets on all sports.With a more than half-century head start on legalized betting, European bookmakers handled more than $13 billion in wagers in 2018, according to Eilers & Krejcik. That is a number Paddy Power and other bookmakers expect the United States market to surpass in as few as five to seven years.“The biggest advantage we have right now is that the leagues, the networks, or me and you don’t have to pretend anymore that there are not hundreds of millions of dollars bet every day on the games we follow,” Kerney said. “We are here to educate and inform but also to become an authority in this space. If we do our jobs, we believe people who follow us will make money.”You can follow Joe Drape on Twitter @joedrapeAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kelly WhitesideFor nearly six months, the Knicks have been anticipating their Jan. 17 road game against the Washington Wizards in London, where the accompanying festivities have the feel of an All-Star weekend no matter their less-than-stellar records.One member of the team, however, now views the trip with dread and will be watching from his couch in New York.Knicks center Enes Kanter, who is from Turkey, said this weekend that he had decided to skip the game because he fears for his life. An outspoken critic of Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Kanter said he worried Turkish spies might kill him there.It was a dramatic escalation of his longstanding criticism of Erdogan and a reflection of the way Kanter has been determined to use his fame as an athlete for political activism he considers crucial and dire.His activism has made him an important figure for a faction of the opposition protesting an autocratic government that also happens to be a strategic ally of the United States.“The N.B.A. provides a big platform to shed light on the human rights violations in Turkey and gives a voice to the thousands of people persecuted,” Kanter said in an interview. “This platform allows me to speak my mind.”Turkish officials have dismissed his comments as baseless, but Kanter said the fear is real — and personal. He said death threats have been “coming a lot more and more every day” since his latest comments.“I was scared. I’m not going to lie,” he said.In March, his father, Mehmet Kanter, a professor, could be sentenced to five to 10 years in prison after being accused of being a member of a group the Turkish government considers terrorist. In May 2017, Enes Kanter was detained for several hours at an airport in Romania after the Turkish government canceled his travel documents. Later that year, Turkey’s state-run news agency reported that prosecutors were seeking to sentence Enes Kanter to more than four years in jail on charges that he had insulted Erdogan on social media.In the last several years, Kanter has received death threats through social media. He does not worry Turkish operatives “would do something crazy” in New York but said he never ventures out alone in the city. He said he feels London presents more of a threat because of the large number of Turkish communities in the city where he presumes spies are operating.Kanter’s father, mother and sister remain in Turkey. He has not seen them since 2015 when, he said, the government destroyed his brother’s school, imprisoned his dentist and arrested a man after his child took a picture with Kanter.In 2016, the Kanter family’s house was raided and their electronics were taken.Kanter has stopped communicating with them because of the fear of retribution.His brother Kerem played basketball professionally in France and is now based in Chicago hoping to land a spot in the N.B.A.’s developmental league. Kanter’s youngest brother, Ahmet, plays high school basketball in Atlanta and is due to return to school this week after spending winter break in Turkey.Kanter said he does not think his recent comments — he called Erdogan a lunatic, a maniac and a dictator in one fell swoop — will further jeopardize his family. On the contrary, he said he thinks being outspoken will secure his family’s safety. If Turkish officials detain his brother at the airport or throw his father in prison, Kanter said, his voice will only grow louder.“I will speak to every newspaper and make it one of the biggest stories,” he said.Kanter has a close relationship with Fethullah Gulen, a cleric who has lived in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania for nearly 20 years and whom the Turkish government has accused of masterminding a bloody coup attempt in July 2016. Gulen denies the accusation.Kanter visits Gulen every two weeks when not traveling with the Knicks. For decades, Gulen’s Hizmet movement has claimed to be trying to push the country toward democracy, education and cultural openness. But critics say the movement has secretly undermined democracy by infiltrating its followers into government institutions in order to seize power.Kanter said he was with Gulen in Pennsylvania the night of the coup attempt, praying for peace. That comment is likely to outrage many in Turkey; the leading coup plotters were Gulen followers who ordered tanks and planes against protesters, killing 251 people, including several soldiers and 60 police officers.Since then, more than 60,000 people have been jailed by the Turkish government — journalists, academics, political opponents and those who express an opposing viewpoint or are affiliated with the Gulen movement.To crack down on dissent, Erdogan has steadily turned Turkey into an authoritarian system through control of the military, the courts, the media and the internet.Kanter is also friends with Hakan Sukur, one of Turkey’s most famous athletes, a hero of its 2002 World Cup team and a veteran of several of Europe’s top soccer leagues.Sukur left Turkey a year before the coup, sensing the country’s unrest, and lives in exile in Palo Alto, Calif., where he is a co-owner of a bakery. Sukur’s political ties and status made him a target of Erdogan’s widespread distrust.Another famous Turkish athlete, Hidayet Turkoglu, who played in the N.B.A. and is now a chief adviser to Erdogan, voiced his criticism of Kanter on Monday.“Kanter can’t enter the U.K. not because of fears for life as he claims but due to passport and visa issues,” Turkoglu, who went by Hedo in the N.B.A., said on Twitter. “This being the long-known truth, he is trying to get the limelight with irrational justifications and political remarks.”In response, Kanter posted a picture to his Instagram account of what appeared to be his travel documents and wrote: “It’s NOT a visa issue!!! I CAN go to London. Either you are delusional, or still Erdogan’s lap dog. Keep wagging your tail Hedo Turkoglu.”Two weeks ago, the Knicks suggested to Kanter that his travel in London be strictly limited to the gym and hotel for safety reasons, he said.After Kanter announced his decision to skip the trip, the team said it was because of an unspecified visa issue, though Kanter disputed this.“I was confused by that,” he said. “I have the travel documents. I have a green card. I can go anywhere.” He assumes the Knicks wanted to remove themselves from the politics of his stance to avoid “negative energy around the team.”Kanter is a citizen of Turkey, but his passport was revoked in 2017. His American travel documents issued by the Department of Homeland Security enable him to enter the United States and the United Kingdom. Once the London game was scheduled, the N.B.A. obtained the documents on Kanter’s behalf.“The N.B.A. has played hundreds of games outside of the U.S. and this is a very unique and unprecedented situation,” Mike Bass, the league’s spokesman, said.Kanter started most of the season, but lost his starting job as the team decided to focus on developing its younger players. His poor defensive play made the decision easier. After a 12-point, 16-rebound night on Tuesday in a 122-95 loss at Golden State, Kanter was averaging 14.4 points and 11.0 rebounds a game.He was born in Switzerland, where his father was studying, but was raised in Turkey.After excelling for the Turkish national team, he enrolled as a freshman at the University of Kentucky in 2010 but was ruled ineligible to play by the N.C.A.A. because of impermissible benefits he received from a Turkish professional team.In the 2011 N.B.A. draft, he was selected third over all by Utah and then traded to Oklahoma City in 2015 before the Knicks acquired him in 2017 in exchange for Carmelo Anthony. He will be a free agent this summer after the final year of his $18.6 million contract.In contrast to the gravity of his outspokenness on human rights issues, Kanter is usually regarded as a goofball among his teammates.After games and practices, he is quick with one-liners. He said he dreams of becoming a W.W.E. wrestler, and he regularly receives thousands of likes and retweets for his jokes on Twitter.The lighter side, he said, is a coping mechanism.As soon as he finished practice two days before Christmas, Kanter returned to the court dressed as an elf, complete with pointy ears, a long green tunic and a brown beard. His red sack was full of random gag gifts, which he handed out to teammates.“It’s very tough,” Kanter said. “I can’t show frustration or being sad or mad. I put my game mask on and focus on the game and being as good as I can be. But I receive death threats. It’s sad that I have to balance this.”Advertisement


      By MARC STEIN

APRIL 12, 2019

As the N.B.A. playoffs begin, the Golden State Warriors superstar guard tells all about his favorite snack and how it fuels his sharpshooting
Stephen Curry’s dazzling pregame shooting sessions have become a dynasty of their own throughout a half-decade of dominance for the Golden State Warriors. Dribbling two balls at once. Swish after swish from steps inside the half-court stripe. Gasp-worthy flings from a tunnel that leads to the bowels of Oracle Arena. As the Warriors chase a fourth championship in five seasons, Curry’s signature array of warm-up shots and tricks, and the crowds they draw, stand as basketball’s answer to a must-see round of Barry Bonds’s batting practice.Lesser known is Curry’s routine before the routine, which he plans to uphold in every game of the N.B.A. playoffs — especially when the Warriors are on the road.“Get off the bus, walk into the locker room, put my stuff down, go straight to the popcorn table,” Curry said.Wardell Stephen Curry II, you see, is a self-professed “popcorn addict.”He is the first to concede that this disclosure clashes with the trends of an N.B.A. that has never been more health conscious. But it is the one vice that the Warriors’ offensive heartbeat regularly succumbs to, and considers an essential part of his game-night experience. “If it’s really good, I’m eating it before the game, at halftime and after,” Curry said.Getting a prescription for contact lenses recently, after years of what he described as “blurry vision,” helped Curry shoot 47.3 percent from the 3-point line in his final 13 games this season — nearly a 5 percentage point increase over his 3-point shooting in all 56 prior games this season. Yet when asked what would play a bigger role in his postseason success — popcorn or his new contacts — Curry scuffled for an answer.“It’s 1A and 1B,” he said.Curry’s love of a snack synonymous with movie-watching goes “way, way back” to his youth. His father, Dell Curry, who enjoyed a 16-season career as an N.B.A. sharpshooter before becoming a broadcaster with the Charlotte Hornets, is another popcorn devotee and suspects that his eldest son inherited the addiction along with some of Dad’s marksmanship.The elder Curry frequently rushes home from Hornets games to watch Stephen and his other son, Seth Curry of the Portland Trail Blazers, in their West Coast games. “It’s still my favorite snack after games,” Dell Curry said. “When I’m watching my kids, I’ve got popcorn with me.”The difference, Dell Curry said, is that he would never have considered eating buttered-and-salted popcorn before playing an N.B.A. game. Ditto for Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, another sharpshooter from Dell Curry’s era. Over the past decade, foods commonly found at the concession stands have become taboo in N.B.A. pregame fueling. Today’s more acceptable fare: energy bars, deli meats and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches that cover training tables in every arena.But the green light Kerr extends to Stephen Curry, to shoot from anywhere at any time, covers his diet as well.“Whatever he is doing, he needs to continue to do,” Kerr said. “That is my advice.”Bruce Fraser is the Golden State assistant coach who has served as the setup man for Curry’s pregame shooting shows since Kerr became the Warriors’ coach entering the 2014-15 season. It’s Fraser’s theory, as perhaps the organization’s keenest Curry observer, that Curry’s attachment to popcorn stems from his numerous childhood trips to N.B.A. games to watch his father play.“I would think it’s a big part of helping him feel like he’s in an arena, which for Steph is home,” Fraser said.Curry’s popcorn devotion has grown so deep that over the past year he has proclaimed in multiple interviews that he maintained his own “power rankings” of the offerings at all 29 N.B.A. arenas. Asked by The New York Times earlier this season if he was prepared to officially compile a 1-to-29 ladder for publication, Curry not only agreed but also suggested scoring five factors on a scale of 1 to 5 to support the rankings: freshness, saltiness, crunchiness, butter and presentation.Steph Curry Ranks the Popcorn at All 29 N.B.A. ArenasFor the purity of the pastime, Curry said, he never adds anything to the popcorn to change its appearance, taste or temperature. He also said he “can visualize where the popcorn is” in any arena on the N.B.A. map.“And then the experience comes right back,” Curry said. “It’s sick, bro. It’s a problem.”He spoke with reverence of the dedicated case of fresh popcorn that the Dallas Mavericks had waiting for him just a quick left turn inside the visitors’ locker room at American Airlines Center on Jan. 13. Curry scored 48 points that night.He proudly told the story of Miami Heat ball boys, at the morning shootaround on Feb. 27, assuring him that he would be “impressed by their efforts on the popcorn front” — and then being greeted later that evening by a table with popcorn bags lined up on wood planks under heat lamps.The Warriors’ annual trip to Brooklyn is always circled on his calendar, Curry said, because of the care Matthew Horton, the 6-foot-10 visiting locker room attendant at Barclays Center known as Tiny, takes to have two servings of fresh popcorn waiting in his locker. Barclays’ popcorn finished second in Curry’s rankings, right between No. 1 Dallas and No. 3 Miami.Although the popcorn at the New Orleans Pelicans’ Smoothie King Center landed just outside the top 10 at No. 12, Warriors staffers still talk about the trip there in Curry’s second N.B.A. season. Upon discovering an oversize bag of popcorn in the training room, Curry moved the bag to his locker and slipped his jersey over it. He was later pictured hugging the bag (without the jersey) on the locker-room floor.“I really get off on popcorn,” Curry said. “It’s not even a joke.”Curry’s longtime Splash Brothers backcourt mate, Klay Thompson, noticed him filling out the team-by-team popcorn ballots on a recent Warriors team flight — and found the scene completely normal. “He’s a popcorn snob,” Thompson said.Kerr gives Curry so much latitude that, he insisted, he was unaware of his star guard’s popcorn habits until a reporter told him. Yet they are a mild source of strain between Curry and the Warriors’ athletic training staff, because popcorn is not a food item approved of or made available for the team at large before home games.Curry is thus forced to take special measures upon arrival at Oracle Arena on game nights. His go-to move is checking in with the security guard Norm Davis, who is stationed at the door to the Warriors’ inner sanctum, and asking Davis if he’s “got some of that good stuff.” Davis will then send Dwight Pruitt, another security guard, to the nearby owner’s suite to get a freshly popped bag.The teams the Warriors play on the road, by contrast, never create such a struggle. “They want us to fatten up a little before the game,” Curry said.Curry knows he shouldn’t be eating as much popcorn as he does, which is why he forces himself to restrict his consumption at home. He described movie popcorn as “the GOAT” but said he permits himself to go to the theaters only “about four times a year.”Of course, when you’ve helped lead your team to three titles in four seasons while winning two Most Valuable Player Awards and becoming one of the most popular players on the planet like Curry has, you have the juice to get away with some things average players don’t. Curry was awarded a four-year, $201 million maximum contract by the Warriors in July 2017 — without any popcorn restrictions.“That would be a non-starter,” Curry said. “They just know it’s not a conversation worth having.”“I down it with water — lots and lots of water,” Curry added, wearing the mischievous look of one of his daughters pleading for a later bedtime. “It’s not overwhelming at all. I have a high tolerance for popcorn.”Curry does not always get his way when it comes to his favorite treat. At the 2018 All-Star Game in Los Angeles at Staples Center — home to what Curry, by the way, ranks as the league’s most unappetizing popcorn — he was caught on camera on the bench in the third quarter munching on a fresh batch out of a box. “The powers that be came and took it out of my hand,” Curry said, referring to two league officials who told him it was a bad look amid live play to be eating popcorn — even during a game that doesn’t count.Yet resistance to such optics may be softening. Dr. Andy Barr, who founded California-based Innovate Performance after stints on the athletic training staffs of the Knicks and New York City F.C. of Major League Soccer, noted that the psychological benefits Curry gains from a snack he enjoys so much could well offset any physiological concerns.“If that’s the routine and you can’t question the performance, there’s no harm in it,” Barr said. “Popcorn is light. It’s salty, but it’s not a heavy substance. It’s more about the quantity and if he’s well hydrated.“If there was an issue with performance or diet relating to body composition or an energy problem, then maybe you would take some issue with it. But it can’t all be straight performance food. With the grind of an N.B.A. season, sometimes you have to have a little bit of lenience with things.”Said Curry: “I consider it a factor in my overall enjoyment of playing in a road environment. If your popcorn is bad, it affects my mood.”Told that it sounds as though popcorn should actually be classified as his favorite food, Curry said: “I know I can’t live off it. But yeah.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc Stein[Want to read more from Marc Stein? Sign up for his free, weekly N.B.A. newsletter by clicking here.]Four of the six best records in the N.B.A. belonged to Eastern Conference teams through Saturday night’s play.The Golden State Warriors, meanwhile, reached the 41-game midpoint of the schedule on a pedestrian (for them) 54-win pace.The first half of the regular season, in other words, has defied most preseason prognostications and requires special examination to properly sort out the 1-to-30 landscape. So it is an ideal time to reconvene what is known as the Committee (of One) and share my team-by-team progress report in the form of N.B.A. Power Rankings.The Committee, as it has since the 2002-03 season, determines the order by weighing what is happening in the present alongside each team’s big-picture outlook — with sprinkles of subjectivity and whimsy thrown in.What used to be a weekly endeavor for me is only a once-a-season enterprise every January now. Yet the goal, as always, is to provide a more up-to-date and detailed assessment than the standings do.(Records and statistics are current heading into Sunday’s games.)1. Toronto Raptors (32-12)The Raptors were this season’s first 30-win team, which is impressive when Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry have been in uniform together only three times in Toronto’s last 17 games. The threat of the Los Angeles Clippers signing Leonard away in free agency is all too real for every basketball-loving Canadian, but the Raptors may still assemble the best possible sales pitch: Win the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference to get to the N.B.A. finals and give Leonard ample reason to stay.2. Milwaukee Bucks (29-12)Giannis Antetokounmpo supplanting James Harden as the league’s Most Valuable Player? Mike Budenholzer emerging from the usual deep field to win N.B.A. Coach of the Year? Milwaukee clinching the East’s No. 1 seed heading into the playoffs? Any of those would have been fairly wild claims back in September, but suddenly they all seem possible halfway through the regular-season schedule. The challenge now: Milwaukee is just beginning the toughest two months of its schedule.3. Golden State Warriors (28-14) Maybe the Warriors do not inspire the fear they once did. Maybe their defensive woes (having slipped to 16th in defensive efficiency) are a sign of true vulnerability. Or maybe, with DeMarcus Cousins just days away from making his long-awaited debut, Golden State’s season is about to start for real. I tend to believe it is the latter, in Year 5 of a historic run, having seen firsthand how much this team can struggle with regular-season motivation.[Read: DeMarcus Cousins Eyes Return as Warriors Prepare for 5-All-Star Lineup]4. Denver Nuggets (28-13)The regular season is just under 90 days old. The plucky Nuggets, despite numerous injuries, have held the top spot in the West — Golden State’s conference — for 44 of them. Yet you would not know it given the limited attention these guys get, as N.B.A. know-it-alls wrestle with billing Denver as a full-fledged contender — or dismissing them as a team that can only do pre-April damage. Book this either way: Nikola Jokic is a lock to snag his first All-Star berth.5. Oklahoma City (26-16)Remember the Thunder’s 0-4 start? Neither do we. Despite the season-long absence of the ace defender Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City leads the league in defensive rating (allowing just 102.9 points per 100 possessions) and specializes in the physical style that has troubled Golden State in the past. The Thunder have undoubtedly benefited from what ranks as the league’s second-easiest schedule to date, but you would struggle to find a star duo meshing better than Russell Westbrook and Paul George.6. Houston Rockets (24-17)Earlier this season, I responded to the Rockets’ disappointing start and Chris Paul’s ongoing hamstring issues by stopping just short of proclaiming the window to contention closed for James Harden and Co. Houston is 7-2 since Dec. 24 — with Harden averaging a mere 41.0 points (and 16.7 3-point attempts!) per game in that stretch. Write the Rockets off if you wish, but Harden’s brilliance, augmented by a resurgent Clint Capela and the newcomer Austin Rivers, should give you pause.7. Indiana Pacers (28-14)Surprise No. 1: Only six teams in the league, according to Basketball-Reference.com’s projections, will finish the season with at least 50 wins. Surprise No. 2: Indiana is on that list, ahead of higher-profile teams like Philadelphia and Oklahoma City, despite the fact that the All-Star guard Victor Oladipo has missed 11 games with a knee problem. Coach Nate McMillan, continuity and a top-two defense have the unfashionable Pacers overachieving — again.8. San Antonio Spurs (25-19)This season’s 11-14 start marked the first time Gregg Popovich has ever sported a sub-.500 record after 25 games and included a four-game stretch in which the Spurs unfathomably suffered three losses in excess of 30 points. The ensuing turnaround, though, has been no less remarkable. San Antonio is 14-5 and ranks No. 1 in offensive efficiency and No. 2 in defensive efficiency in that span, led by the midrange maestros DeMar DeRozan and LaMarcus Aldridge flat-out ignoring the league’s 3-point revolution.9. Boston Celtics (25-17)The numbers continue to say that the Celtics are fine. They have a per-game average point differential (+6.4) that ranks second only to Milwaukee’s (+9.1). Boston is also one of just four teams (along with Milwaukee, Toronto and Denver) to rank in the top 10 in both offensive (ninth) and defensive (fourth) efficiency. The problem: Boston just followed up an impressive rout of Indiana with losses in Miami and Orlando that suggested yet again that things are not fine.10. Philadelphia 76ers (27-16)For all the creative tension that has bubbled around the Sixers since they acquired Jimmy Butler on Nov. 10, they have the fourth-best overall record in that span (19-10) despite well-chronicled concerns about shooting and depth around Philadelphia’s star trio as well as the occasional squawking. Butler’s fit alongside Joel Embiid and Ben Simmons has been less than seamless, as predicted, but stockpiling as much talent as possible and then trying to solve the puzzle is the N.B.A. way.11. Utah Jazz (23-21)The Jazz have risen to a more familiar No. 5 in defensive efficiency and contend that their road-heavy schedule, with 25 of the first 41 games away, has contributed mightily to keeping them out of the West’s top eight for much of the season. But to resemble the team most experts thought it would be, Utah needs Donovan Mitchell’s January resurgence to last, as well as a return to last season’s standards from Joe Ingles.12. Portland Trail Blazers (26-17)One of my faulty predictions from last year asserted that 2018 would be the year that the Trail Blazers finally broke up the Damian Lillard/C.J. McCollum partnership as a means to build a more balanced roster. Portland has instead clung to the hope that Jusuf Nurkic will keep inching closer to becoming the consistent third wheel it has needed for ages. It is a better team than last season’s version but only marginally — and still vulnerable to athletic opposition.13. Los Angeles Lakers (23-20)Winning without LeBron James is hard. Who knew? The Lakers are 3-6 since James suffered a strained groin in a Christmas Day rout of Golden State. As a result, they have slid from a higher-than-expected No. 4 to an uncomfortable No. 8 in the West — thus resurrecting all the preseason questions about L.A.’s ability to make the playoffs with, shall we say, such an eclectic roster. James appears likely, at 34, to miss more than the 11 games Stephen Curry lost to a similar injury in November.14. Los Angeles Clippers (24-18)I fear they are at high risk to slip out of the West’s top eight, but the Clippers would certainly slot in right at the top of the play-hard rankings if there were such an industry. The feisty likes of Montrezl Harrell and Patrick Beverley, flanking a better-than-ever Tobias Harris, continue to make the Clippers more bizarrely competitive than anyone imagined heading into a summer in which they appear well positioned to make the loudest free-agent noise in franchise history.15. Sacramento Kings (22-21)A Bogdan Bogdanovic buzzer-beater to topple the Lakers on Dec. 27 hiked the fast-paced Kings’ record to 19-16 and seemed to announce the blossoming tandem of De’Aaron Fox and Buddy Hield as certifiable playoff material after a league-high 12 consecutive seasons of missing out. Sacramento then unraveled, enduring a 1-5 funk which included an embarrassing fall-from-ahead loss at Phoenix when the Suns were without Devin Booker. You cannot afford funks in the West.16. Miami Heat (21-20)Little emanating from South Beach makes sense, whether it is Miami’s ability to play .500 basketball despite missing out on Butler via trade and having Goran Dragic healthy for just 14 games — or the fact this team is 0-3 against Atlanta. It is unclear how long it will take Miami to get back into the trade mix for a player of Butler’s caliber, but the retiring Dwyane Wade should have an opportunity to bid the game farewell from the playoff stage.17. Brooklyn Nets (21-23)The drop-off from the East’s top five to teams trying to secure the last three playoff stops is as steep as pessimists feared. Not that the Nets intend to apologize after the barren half-decade they endured in the wake of their disastrous 2014 trade with Boston. While the Knicks tank their way to a shot at Zion Williamson, New Yorkers may get postseason games after all, thanks to success stories like Spencer Dinwiddie, D’Angelo Russell, Joe Harris and Jarrett Allen.18. New Orleans Pelicans (20-23)It is a misnomer to say Anthony Davis has no help; Jrue Holiday, Nikola Mirotic and Julius Randle are all accomplished players. The Pelicans’ problems have been health (most notably injuries for Mirotic and the point guard Elfrid Payton) and difficulties in playing Davis, Mirotic and Randle together even when they are all available. New Orleans, as a result, is facing the biggest possible issue: Scenarios that force them to trade The Brow grow more plausible by the day.19. Washington Wizards (18-25)Indiana has crashed the East’s upper crust to give the conference its own Fab Five, but we were not exaggerating the drop-off to the chasing pack. Look no further than the nation’s capital for proof, with the Wizards still firmly in the playoff chase despite losing John Wall to season-ending heel surgery. Recent wins over Oklahoma City, Philadelphia and Milwaukee should tell you that the Wiz are not heeding some fans’ calls to tank.20. Dallas Mavericks (20-22)Luka Doncic has a real shot to become the first rookie to achieve All-Star status since Blake Griffin in 2011, which already makes this a more successful season in Dallas than many forecast. But the huge disparity between the Mavericks’ play at home (16-4) and on the road (4-18), Dirk Nowitzki’s health woes in what they hoped would be a heartwarming final season and J.J. Barea’s season-ending Achilles tear, have combined to snuff out some of the joy.[Read: The Mavericks’ Key to Keeping Players Fresh? Blood Samples]21. Minnesota Timberwolves (21-22) As regular readers know, Glen Taylor’s passive ownership style is a frequent source of consternation for the Committee. But give Taylor this: Firing Tom Thibodeau when he did to replace him with the 32-year-old Ryan Saunders, bizarre as the timing seemed, meant eating an estimated $20 million left on Thibodeau’s contract. If only Taylor was that decisive back in June or July when the Wolves really needed to start dealing with Butler’s discontent.22. Charlotte Hornets (19-23)The Michael Jordan-owned Hornets have All-Star Weekend hosting duties in a month to assure the franchise and city a measure of prominence this season. But what they, especially Jordan, really want is a playoff berth that is by no means certain given the limited scoring punch Charlotte can field beyond its do-everything guard Kemba Walker. It also does not help that the Hornets have already racked up a league-high eight costly losses in one-possession games.23. Detroit Pistons (18-23)Since it hit my radar during an early season visit to Motown, it has been one of my favorite stats of the season: Blake Griffin leads the league in touches per game at 93.3. Nikola Jokic and Harden are the only others in 90s, but the number doubles as an illustration of the Pistons’ shortcomings as much as it spotlights Griffin’s special ability as a power player to handle the ball like a guard. He is clearly compensating for multiple holes in the roster.24. Memphis Grizzlies (19-23)Memphis has nose-dived from a West-leading record of 12-5 on Thanksgiving, losing 18 of 25 games while the former All-Star center Marc Gasol has been submerged in a slump that has shown few signs of relenting. The fade may not only cost the Grizzlies a playoff berth but also threaten to extend Mike Conley’s career-long wait for an All-Star berth, since team success is bound to be factored in to the votes of the media panel and coaches given the glut of worthy guards in the West.25. Orlando Magic (18-24)The Magic reeled off seven wins in a nine-game stretch in November under new coach Steve Clifford to spawn hopes that competing for a spot in the inviting lower reaches of the East’s playoff ladder was feasible. Two months later, apart from the career-best season assembled by the veteran big man Nikola Vucevic, Orlando is back on course for a ninth successive trip to the lottery and remains as desperate as Phoenix for an upgrade at point guard.26. Atlanta Hawks (13-29)If the Hawks finish where they are as the so-called best of the worst, they will have a 10.5 percent shot at the No. 1 overall pick in June in the N.B.A.’s new lottery system, which flattens out the odds to 14 percent each for teams with the three-worst records. In the interim, Trae Young’s development is the overwhelming focus, which makes it difficult not to partake in obsessing over how Young is shooting from the field (.394) and 3-point range (.291).27. Phoenix Suns (11-33)Deandre Ayton’s Rookie of the Year campaign would appear to be the only pleasant diversion for one of the league’s longest-suffering fan bases amid Phoenix’s ninth straight non-playoff season, Booker’s various health woes and the owner Robert Sarver’s struggles to secure public financing for the renovation of the Suns’ downtown arena. Yet I cannot say I love Ayton’s chances after witnessing up close how badly he was outplayed by the R.O.Y. favorite Doncic last week.28. New York Knicks (10-32)Will the Knicks really hold Kristaps Porzingis out for the entire season? Will the Knicks trade Enes Kanter? Will the Knicks get lucky in the June draft? Those three questions have dominated Coach David Fizdale’s first season in New York while this franchise waits for its opportunity in July to see if it can really make the long-awaited splash in free agency that many league observers legitimately expect after two mostly hapless decades.29. Chicago Bulls (10-33)Jim Boylen is still running some long practices, but things have mellowed (at least somewhat) between the Bulls and their feisty new coach after the initial wave of wind sprints, push-ups and disagreements. While Boylen works to secure a return next season, it is all about development for the rest of this season for the few keepers on the roster — most notably Lauri Markkanen, Zach LaVine and Wendell Carter Jr. — and finding new homes for Jabari Parker and Robin Lopez.30. Cleveland Cavaliers (8-35)In the four years between James’s two stints with his home-state franchise, Cleveland somehow won the N.B.A. draft lottery three times: 2011 (Kyrie Irving), 2013 (Anthony Bennett) and 2014 (Andrew Wiggins). Dreams of getting lucky again and earning the right to select Zion Williamson may be the only source of comfort for Cavaliers fans to get through what surely must feel like the longest of winters watching such hopeless basketball.Advertisement
