AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMILWAUKEE — Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 30 points and Khris Middleton added 21 to send Milwaukee to a methodical 115-107 victory over the Atlanta Hawks on Sunday night, giving the Bucks 60 wins in a season for the first time since 1981.The Bucks, who have clinched the best record in the Eastern Conference, led from the outset as the Hawks rested leading scorers John Collins and Trae Young.Milwaukee led 85-72 entering the final period, but Atlanta pulled to 101-98 on a drive by DeAndre' Bembry with 3:28 left.Middleton countered with consecutive 3-pointers and Antetokounmpo connected from beyond the arc to put Milwaukee up 110-98.Alex Len had a career-high 33 points for Atlanta, including six 3-pointers.None of the Bucks' starters played more than 27 minutes and 11 of 12 available players each logged at least 19 minutes.Milwaukee led 28-21 after one quarter and pushed it to 46-30 before the Hawks trimmed it to 54-45 at halftime.Vince Carter hit two free throws to cap a 10-point run that pulled Atlanta to 78-71, but the Bucks pushed the lead to 85-72 entering the fourth.Milwaukee, which lost in the first round of the playoffs each of the last two seasons, has not advanced past the opening round since making the Eastern Conference finals in 2001.The 1980-81 Bucks team that finished 60-22 under coach Don Nelson included Sidney Moncrief, Marques Johnson, Junior Bridgeman and Bob Lanier.TIP-INSHawks: Young (19.1 points per game), who had started all 80 games, and John Collins (19.5 ppg) did not play due to load management. "We figured today would be a good day to sit them and finish the season on a high note at home," coach Lloyd Pierce said. "That's really important for us as a team and with what we've been through this year."Bucks: Antetokounmpo, who did not play in Saturday's 133-128 loss to the Nets because of left calf soreness, was questionable for this one. But he was back in the lineup after experiencing no setbacks during pregame warmups.UP NEXTThe Hawks host Indiana on Wednesday.The Bucks host Oklahoma City on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLarry Drew will not return for a second season as the head coach of the Cleveland Cavaliers after he and the team mutually agreed Thursday to part ways."We have great respect and appreciation for Larry and the job that he did as the head coach of the Cavaliers for nearly the entire 2018-19 campaign," general manager Koby Altman said in a statement. "He brought professionalism, class and steady leadership both this past season and prior four years."Larry and I had a productive discussion about this past season, the future of the franchise and the search process that we will shortly launch regarding the head coaching role. Larry respectfully declined to participate in the search process and will not be returning to coach the Cavaliers. All of us in Cleveland wish Larry nothing but the best going forward."The Cavs finished 19-63 in 2018-19 as Drew took over after the firing of Tyronn Lue on Oct. 28 following the team's 0-6 start. Drew was named interim head coach at first, before agreeing to a new deal on Nov. 5.Drew, 61, previously was head coach of the Atlanta Hawks (2010-13) and Milwaukee Bucks (2013-14), and joined the Cavaliers initially as an assistant coach in 2014, then as the associate head coach. While there, the Cavaliers won their first NBA title during the 2015-16 season. He has been an assistant coach in the NBA for 23 seasons.Drew went 8-1 as fill-in coach in the 2017-18 season while Lue was on a medical leave to deal with anxiety issues."I want to thank Dan Gilbert, Koby Altman, the entire organization, and especially our fans, for what has been a very special and rewarding time here in Cleveland. Koby and I had a good discussion following the season and have both decided that the best decision for each of us was that I would not return to coach the team," said Drew, who was an NBA point guard from 1980-91, playing for the Detroit Pistons, Kansas City/Sacramento Kings, Los Angeles Clippers and Lakers."I am very proud of what we accomplished over the last several years together and will always cherish our Championship. I also want to commend our players this season for the bond that they established, the way they approached their jobs and the hard work and growth they had every day. I am very proud of them and wish them the best as they continue to develop for the future."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherMike Bibby, the former N.B.A. player, is being investigated by the police over accusations of sexual abuse.Mr. Bibby, now a high school basketball coach in Arizona, was accused by a teacher who works at the same school, The Arizona Republic reported. The episode that prompted the accusations was said to have taken place in 2017.The Republic, citing a restraining order granted last week, said that Mr. Bibby had been accused of grabbing the teacher by the waist and pulling her into a car, then groping her and rubbing his genitals on her. After the woman left the car, the order said, he followed her and made sexual remarks. The woman said she did not know Mr. Bibby before the incident.The restraining order quoted the teacher as saying she was “in shock, in fear, intimidated by his actions, afraid of him as he smelled of alcohol.”A lawyer for Mr. Bibby denied the accusations.“I can say with pretty much certainty this alleged incident didn’t happen and that will be shown down the road,” Donald Harris, Mr. Bibby’s lawyer, told The Republic. “Michael Bibby did not participate in a sexual assault of any way, shape or form that was alleged by this lady two years ago.”Mr. Bibby recently coached the boys’ basketball team to a fourth straight state championship at the school, Shadow Mountain High in Phoenix. He is also an alumnus of Shadow Mountain, and won a state championship as a player in the 1990s before attending the University of Arizona, where he won a national championship in 1997. He retired from the N.B.A. in 2012 after a 14-year career with six teams, most notably the Vancouver Grizzlies, Sacramento Kings and Atlanta Hawks. He spent his last season with the Knicks, playing 39 games after signing as a free agent in December 2011.For the past two summers, Mr. Bibby, 40, played with the Ghost Ballers of the Big3, a professional 3-on-3 basketball league founded by the rapper Ice Cube.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherKyle Korver, the veteran N.B.A. player, said he was embarrassed by some of his thoughts about race in the past and uncomfortable about the contradictions of being a white player in a largely black sport. And in an essay in The Players’ Tribune, he strongly urged action to redress racism around the N.B.A. and in the United States.In the essay, titled “Privileged,” Korver, who plays for the Utah Jazz, recounted an incident from when he played for the Atlanta Hawks. After a teammate, Thabo Sefolosha, was injured and arrested in New York in 2015, Korver said his first reaction was, “What was Thabo doing out at a club on a back-to-back?” rather than concern about the injury or dismay over the arrest. “I sort of blamed Thabo,” he said.Cringing at that thought today, Korver noted that as a white man, “I probably would’ve been safe on the street that one night in New York.”In March, Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder had an altercation with a fan in Salt Lake City. Korver told a reporter at the time: “You know Russ. He gets into it with the crowd a lot.” But soon after, he heard the full story, that Westbrook heard the fan make “racial” remarks, as Westbrook put it. His teammates shared stories of similar experiences. “Guys were just sick and tired of it all,” he wrote.His words resonated as a white player speaking on race, in a league with predominantly black athletes playing before predominantly white crowds.He noted this position: “I have more in common with the fans in the crowd at your average N.B.A. game than I have with the players on the court.”“I may work with those guys. And I absolutely 100 percent stand with them. But I look like the other guy. And whether I like it or not? I’m beginning to understand how that means something.”The essay drew positive reactions from the world of the N.B.A. and elsewhere.“Salute my brother,” LeBron James said on Twitter. “Means a lot. And like you said, I hope people listen, just open your ears and listen.”Korver, 38, has played for five N.B.A. teams over a career dating to 2003. At his peak, he was one of the game’s best shooters, especially 3-pointers. This season, he is averaging 9 points and 20 minutes a game with the Jazz.His essay wrestles with systemic racism throughout America, and Korver said: “As white people, are we guilty of the sins of our forefathers? No, I don’t think so. But are we responsible for them? Yes, I believe we are.”“It’s about understanding on a fundamental level that black people and white people, they still have it different in America. And that those differences come from an ugly history … not some random divide.”“I believe that what’s happening to people of color in this country — right now, in 2019 — is wrong,” he said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreBy Victor MatherThe Knicks won a basketball game Thursday night. That has not happened since Jan. 4.There won’t be a ticker-tape parade, but it was a surprise. This, after all, has been a really bad season for the Knicks.They are 11-47. The win, over the Atlanta Hawks, 106-91, broke an 18-game losing streak, which was a franchise record.The team traded away its most popular player by far, Kristaps Porzingis, and in return got a rookie and a couple of expiring contracts. The deal also meant the cancellation of the coming Latvian Heritage Night at Madison Square Garden, which frankly was shaping up to be one of the highlights of the season.To be fair, a core of loyalists insist that these Knicks are a fun bunch to watch. And there is optimistic talk for next year.The Knicks are bad enough to have a decent shot at the top draft pick, probably Zion Williamson, Duke’s superstar big man. Cap space will allow the team to seek big-name free agents, and there is sunny speculation that the team could land stars like Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving or even both.We’ll see about that. But for now, fans are left pondering if the Knicks are historically dreadful or just run-of-the-mill dreadful.Let’s see how the Knicks rate, at least in the current century.That means this year’s Knicks won’t have to compete against the consensus worst team of them all, the legendary 9-73 Philadelphia 76ers of 1972-73.Despite a couple of 50-win seasons, in 2000 and 2013, the Knicks’ winning percentage this century is .416, worst in the N.B.A. Yes, even worse than the Washington Wizards, and Charlotte Hornets, and even the Nets.Here is how the 2018-19 Knicks stack up.This is where it begins and ends. Wins. Losses. But mostly losses. Lots and lots of losses.The Knicks are 11-47, giving them a winning percentage that looks like a typo: .190.But there were worse seasons in the last 20 years. In 2012, the Bobcats (now the Hornets) finished at 7-59 in a lockout season for a .106 percentage.Over a full season, the 76ers in 2016, in full tanking mode, only barely managed to break double digit wins with a 10-72 record.The Knicks are only 11th worst.Even counting just those streaks that are contained in a single season, the Knicks’ 18-gamer comes up short. The 2011 Cleveland Cavaliers and the 2014 76ers both managed to stumble to 26 straight losses. After Thursday’s win, the Knicks have lost their chance at that ignominious record.The Knicks have been outscored by 8.7 points in an average game this season.Again, there have been worse teams. The 2012 Charlotte strike team lost by 13.9 points a game. The 2000 Clippers put up minus-11.5 over a full season.The Knicks are only 25th.There are those Sixers again: In 2015, they shot .408 for the season. At .430, the Knicks are 39th.The 2009 Grizzlies had only 17.4 assists per game, trailed closely by the 2006 Knicks of Larry Brown, Stephon Marbury and notorious nonpasser Eddy Curry.This season’s Knicks aren’t good, but they aren’t really bad, at 19.9, for 91st place.It is not a good time for defensive stats in the N.B.A. Using the metric points allowed per 100 possessions, three teams this season are in the top five of the century: The Cavaliers are allowing 117 points per 100, worst of the era, and indeed for as far back as Basketball-Reference’s stats go. Over the last 20 years, this season‘s Suns are second, and the Knicks, at 113.4, are seventh.Do any of this year’s Knicks individually reach truly humiliating marks? Not really.Frank Ntilikina’s .342 shooting percentage is poor certainly, but it is only 24th worst among players with 15 minutes a game and 40 games played, a lot better than DeShawn Stevenson’s .285 from the 2012 Nets.So we are forced to conclude, that while dispiritingly bad, the Knicks come up short in another way too. They are not even really close to being the worst team of the last 20 years.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaLOS ANGELES — The Los Angeles Lakers described last weekend’s N.B.A. All-Star break as an opportunity for a much-needed reset, with the hope that they could ultimately make a playoff push after spending a few days apart. None of it sounded very convincing.But when the team reconvened for practice on Wednesday morning, LeBron James said his level of intensity had been “activated,” as if he were a superhero who had flipped a switch. He does not usually activate himself this early in the season, he said, but the Lakers need all of him now — in large part because they had lost so much ground when he was sidelined for about a month with a groin injury.“We would have loved to have had success when I was out, but we didn’t, so this is where we are right now,” James said.And when asked how he would elevate the play of his younger teammates, he put it simply: “We don’t have a choice.”In other words, it was sink or swim for the Lakers before their game against the Houston Rockets on Thursday night, and there would be no lifeguard.For one night, at least, the Lakers swam. They were cohesive enough to come away with a 111-106 victory against one of the better teams in the Western Conference. For one night, at least, the Lakers showed that they could erase a 19-point deficit by playing solid defense and making their free throws. For one night, at least, the Lakers could depend on players like Brandon Ingram (27 points, 13 rebounds) and Kyle Kuzma (18 points) to deliver in a game that the team really needed to win.The question now is whether the Lakers, who at 29-29 are the very definition of average, can build off it. Consistency has not been their hallmark.“It can give us some momentum that we need,” Coach Luke Walton said, “or it can do nothing. It depends how we respond to this.”Not so long ago, the Lakers had a similarly galvanizing win — or so it seemed.It was Feb. 7, and before the league’s trade deadline Magic Johnson, the team’s president of basketball operations, had failed in his quest to ship nearly half of the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans in exchange for the All-Star center Anthony Davis. It was a huge soap opera, and the Lakers responded in surprising fashion: by going out that night and defeating the Boston Celtics — on the road, no less.The win, though, was fool’s gold. The Lakers got pulverized by the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, then hobbled into the All-Star break with a loss to the Atlanta Hawks — a performance so devoid of energy that it seemed to signal a dysfunctional locker room, and maybe even one that was beyond repair.The team was below .500.Walton encouraged his players to reflect and refocus over the break. For James, that meant returning to Los Angeles in playoff mode — much earlier than he would prefer.But this is unfamiliar territory for James, a three-time champion who has made 13 straight trips to the playoffs and eight straight appearances in the N.B.A. finals. Now, with an inexperienced batch of teammates on the Lakers, he is merely fighting to lead them into the postseason.“I’m all about being uncomfortable,” he said this week. “I love being uncomfortable. I fall in love with being uncomfortable, so this is another uncomfortable thing for me, and I love it.”Then he must have loved what happened against the Rockets (33-25), who built a gaping lead in the third quarter behind James Harden. But the Lakers dominated the fourth quarter by limiting the Rockets to 36.8 percent shooting and forcing six turnovers. James finished with 29 points, 11 rebounds and 6 assists.“He’s had more of a serious focus on his face, about him, the last two days, even in the practice facility,” Walton said, adding: “I think he recognizes where we’re at and the sense of urgency we need to play with.”The Lakers also benefited from the fresh presence of Reggie Bullock, a versatile wing whom they acquired from the Detroit Pistons at the trade deadline. Bullock scored 14 points and defended the Rockets’ James Harden for long stretches. For a team that lacks much experience, Bullock could make a difference moving forward.“He’s a vet,” James said. “It’s great to have a shooter of his caliber, of his size; his competitive nature out on the floor. He was big for us.”The Lakers left Staples Center two and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final playoff spot in the West. But James expressed supreme confidence as the team prepared to visit the Pelicans on Saturday.“I like where I’m at,” he said. “I will love where I’m at in the next few games, and I believe — continue to get better and better.”As for his teammates — well, that is up to them.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn College BasketballBy Marc TracyWhen Zion Williamson of Duke went down with a severed shoe and a sprained knee 30 seconds into Wednesday night’s showdown with North Carolina, it was bad news for plenty involved. Williamson now has to deal with an injury. Duke had to play its archrival without its best player and duly lost, 88-72. Nike faced questions about its product’s apparent failure.But ESPN, broadcasting the contest as part of its multibillion-dollar deal with the Atlantic Coast Conference, did just fine. The game’s biggest star was injured for nearly 99 percent of the game, yet on Thursday, the network reported that the rivalry had produced its highest-ever ratings for a weeknight college basketball game.The episode crystallized the economic limitations that N.C.A.A. amateurism and N.B.A. rules impose on Williamson, a preternatural talent, and the unique ways that they limit the income of a unique player.If the N.B.A. did not bar high schoolers from heading straight to the league — a rule that may disappear in a few years — then Williamson could already have been playing for, say, the Atlanta Hawks and making several million dollars on his rookie contract. If N.C.A.A. rules did not prevent players from signing endorsements, Williamson could already have been receiving millions from Nike.However, barring an outright catastrophe, Williamson, the likely top draft pick, will be getting paid, soon and well, and at a time when his economic productivity is even higher than it is today. His specialness, though, obscures what some suggest is the greatest injustice of college sports’ policy of amateurism.In contrast to Williamson and a few other superstars, most players in college basketball are denied the right to cash in during what is very likely their moment of peak economic value.“The top guys are worth a lot — on the order of millions a year,” said Daniel Rascher, a sports economist who has studied the economic value of college athletes. “But the seven, eight, nine guys,” he added, referring to the players further down the depth chart, “are going to be several hundred thousand a year in terms of the incremental revenue they bring to the school.”Take Duke’s Jordan Goldwire. He was a midrated recruit out of high school, and his options besides Duke included midmajor programs such as Eastern Kentucky, Coastal Carolina and Nevada-Las Vegas. He is probably not bound for N.B.A. riches. This season, he has not played at all in three A.C.C. games and has averaged fewer than seven minutes in those he has played in. He played eight minutes against the Tar Heels on Wednesday. But that actually made him an essential contributor to a two-hour broadcast worth a lot of money to Duke, the A.C.C. and ESPN.“If you look at the N.B.A., the guys who don’t play very much still get paid a lot,” Rascher said.Or forget about Duke and think of the players at whichever team makes the N.C.A.A. tournament out of the Big South or the Patriot League. Part of that billion-dollar event’s charm comes from the quirky matchups — and the potential for exciting upsets — when such teams face juggernauts like Duke and Kansas in the early rounds. Players on those teams, too, are producing a real financial return for the N.C.A.A., for its member colleges and for CBS and Turner Sports, even though their abilities will never be remotely so lucrative again. Yet they are prohibited from taking more than a relatively small, prescribed share of that value.Moreover, all of these players, too, are risking futures in professional basketball — more of them than you might think. While fewer than 5 percent of Division I men’s basketball players are drafted into the N.B.A., the N.C.A.A. said last year, around half go on to play pro basketball in some form, such as in foreign leagues. From teams in the five top conferences, the N.C.A.A. added, more than three-quarters of players go on to be paid to play.The college sports establishment’s common rebuttal to these lines of thinking is that not paying the players beyond scholarships and related costs is actually crucial to the popularity of their sports.Last year, in a federal lawsuit challenging the N.C.A.A.’s restrictions on compensation from an antitrust perspective, Mike Aresco, a former sports television executive who is now commissioner of the American Athletic Conference, testified that college players’ amateur status was a feature of their sports’ appeal, not a bug.“It resonated with fans because it wasn’t professionalized at all,” he said, according to a court transcript, while serving as a witness for several conferences and the N.C.A.A. itself. “And it was presented and framed as college students, as college sports.”Among other things, this distinction differentiated college basketball and college football from minor league sports, Aresco said. “And that was very important,” he added, “because minor leagues had never been popular.”He said: “People view college sports separately. And we always maintained that separation.”Rascher was a witness for the plaintiffs in that case, in which a decision is expected any day. His reply to arguments like Aresco’s was to point to the experiment of sorts that took place a few years ago, when the N.C.A.A. permitted colleges to offer athletes funds that included the so-called full cost of attendance. After players began to be “paid” slightly more than they had previously been, college sports’ popularity was not measurably affected.Williamson’s injury in the marquee game of the regular season, particularly so early in the contest, appeared to be a devastating blow to Duke, which entered as a 9-point favorite yet never led once. Being magnanimous, Roy Williams, North Carolina’s colorful coach, acknowledged as much afterward.“Be honest,” he said. “When the big fella goes out of the game, it changes a lot of stuff for them.”Judging from the final score, Williams was right. But be honest: If you looked only at the bottom line, you would not even know that the big fella was gone.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherAs the crowd filed out of the Barclays Center in May 2015, there was reason for hope. Though the Nets had just been eliminated by the Atlanta Hawks in the first round of the playoffs, they had overachieved and shown some promise for the future. And Phil Jackson had become the Knicks president the year before, bringing his triangle offense and a coaching résumé that included 11 N.B.A. titles to Manhattan.Little did New York fans know that it would be four dreadful years before playoff basketball would return to the city. It finally will on Thursday night, when the Nets host the Philadelphia 76ers in a series tied at one all.While there has been no playoff basketball in the city in the interim, much has happened in those four years. And for Knicks and Nets fans, not much of it has been good.May 1, 2015 The eighth-seeded Nets fall to the top-seeded Hawks, 111-87. But they take two games in the series, raising optimism. “We were able to secure a playoff spot,” Coach Lionel Hollins says. “Some people will say, ‘Hey, we didn’t deserve it.’ That’s their problem.”June 25 After putting up a 17-65 record, the worst in franchise history and the league’s second worst in 2015, the Knicks have bad luck in the draft lottery, ending up at the No. 4 spot. Nevertheless, their selection, Kristaps Porzingis of Latvia, will pay off, quickly becoming a star and a fan favorite.Oct. 3 Knicks Coach Derek Fisher gets into a physical altercation after being confronted by Matt Barnes of the Memphis Grizzlies at the home of Barnes’s estranged wife. Barnes is suspended for two games.Dec. 30 Cleanthony Early of the Knicks is shot in the knee by masked men and robbed of gold teeth caps after a visit to a strip club.Jan. 10, 2016 The Nets fire Coach Hollins and demote General Manager Billy King with the team at 10-27. “Frankly speaking, I deserve a championship now much more than six years ago,”  owner Mikhail D. Prokhorov says.Feb. 8 The Knicks, 23-31, fire Fisher. “There’s not a whole lot to say,” Jackson says in his first remarks to reporters since the start of training camp.April 13 The Nets finish the season 21-61, the league’s third worst record. But there will be little help on draft day: They traded their top pick to the Celtics in 2014 for a 37-year-old Kevin Garnett and a 36-year-old Paul Pierce, both of whom are gone at this point.The Knicks finish 32-50. That’s a 15-game improvement, but Jackson says, “We’re disappointed about our season.”April 17 The Nets hire Kenny Atkinson, a Hawks assistant, as head coach. “Together, we can do great things,” Prokhorov says.June 2 The Knicks hire Jeff Hornacek as coach, bypassing the interim coach, Kurt Rambis.June 22 The Knicks trade for Derrick Rose, who proclaims them a “superteam.” After a year he will leave for the Cleveland Cavaliers.July 7 The Nets sign Jeremy Lin, perhaps hoping to recapture the Linsanity that took over the Knicks in 2012.July 8 The Knicks sign Joakim Noah for four years and $72 million. This will not work out. Noah will be suspended for 20 games for a drug violation, be sent to the developmental league and get into a shouting match with Hornacek. The Knicks wind up releasing him in 2018 and paying him anyway.Feb. 8, 2017 The Knicks legend Charles Oakley is ejected from Madison Square Garden during a game. The crowd sides with the former player, chanting “Oakley, Oakley.” The Knicks say he behaved abusively, and the owner, James L. Dolan, says that Oakley “may have a problem with alcohol.” Oakley sues, claiming defamation and battery.March 12 Carmelo Anthony gets his 10,000th point as a Knick, becoming the third player to reach that mark with two teams.April 12 The Nets finish 20-62, the worst record in the league. Once again a potentially high draft pick is gone, as part of the Garnett deal. The Knicks are 31-51.June 22 The Nets trade their longtime star Brook Lopez to the Los Angeles Lakers for D’Angelo Russell and Timofey Mozgov. Russell will become a key player in the team’s resurgence.June 28 The Knicks and Phil Jackson agree to part ways after three years. The Knicks never fully embraced his triangle offense, and Jackson remained wary of the 3-point shot as it became increasingly important in the league. He also could never seem to get rid of Anthony, the team’s aging star who refused to waive a no-trade clause. Jackson also feuded with the player expected to be the team’s future, Porzingis.Sept. 25 A trade is finally worked out for Anthony, who is sent to the Oklahoma City Thunder for Enes Kanter. He gave the Knicks seven seasons of 20-points-a-game play. Jackson was willing “to trade me for a bag of chips,” Anthony says. He also notes that under new management, “They went from asking for peanuts to asking for steak.”Oct. 18 Lin ruptures a knee tendon  in the Nets’ opening game and misses the entire season.Feb. 6, 2018 Porzingis tears the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee and is out for the rest of this season and the next one.April 11 The Nets finish 28-54. Incredibly, for a third straight year they do not have their top pick because of that Garnett deal. (Garnett is by now 41 and has been out of the league two years.) The lost picks turned into Jaylen Brown, a big part of the contending Celtics; Markelle Fultz, a No. 1 overall choice; and Collin Sexton, who averaged 17 points as a rookie with the Cleveland Cavaliers.The Knicks wind up 29-53 and fire Hornacek the next day. David Fizdale will be the new coach.Asked how the Knicks can improve, the superfan Spike Lee can only turn to prayer: “On bended knee I pray above to da basketball gods to deliver us back to da glory years of da Orange and Blue. Amen,” he writes in The New York Times.June 20 The Nets make a trade to get Dwight Howard from the Hornets, but Howard buys his way out of his contract and never plays for them.July 13 The Nets trade Lin to the Hawks, curing the city’s second, significantly milder case of Linsanity.Jan. 31, 2019 The Knicks  send their most popular player, Porzingis, who is still recovering from the torn A.C.L., to the Dallas Mavericks in a blockbuster trade. Two months later it will be revealed that he is under investigation by the New York Police Department after being accused of sexual assault.The Knicks get Dennis Smith Jr. and some expiring contracts, which should open up salary cap space so they can sign some marquee free agents. Assuming that marquee free agents would want to play for the Knicks.March 12 Knicks fans hoping for a change in ownership are disappointed when Dolan proclaims that he will not sell the team, even for $6 billion. Two days before that, he was filmed threatening a fan with banishment from the Garden after the fan had urged him to sell the team.April 10 The Knicks have sunk to the bottom of the league again, finishing 17-65 and tying the franchise-worst mark. The Nets start the season 8-18, but then unexpectedly turn things around behind Russell, Spencer Dinwiddie (picked up from the developmental league in 2016) and Jarrett Allen (a No. 22 pick in 2017). They finish 42-40. Playoff basketball returns to New York. For now.An earlier version of this article misstated the Knicks’ record in the 2014-15 season. They were 17-65, not 17-63.Benjamin Hoffman contributed reporting.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Alex WongNathaniel Butler has been an N.B.A. senior photographer since 1984. Those were the days of shooting on film and developing photos in hotel rooms after games. Today, players text Butler as they arrive at the arena so he can be in position to capture a perfect arena entrance shot for them to post on Instagram.The job isn’t what it used to be.When Andrew D. Bernstein became an official N.B.A. photographer in 1986, he was continually thwarted in his attempts to get his camera into in-game huddles to capture the interactions between players and coaches. Pat Riley, who was the coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, made sure to obscure all viewpoints.Halfway through the season, Riley asked Bernstein why he wanted to be in the huddle. People want to see what’s happening on the inside, Bernstein told Riley, who agreed to give Bernstein a chance. If you screw up, Riley said, you are never coming back.More than three decades later, Bernstein is still photographing N.B.A. players, huddles and pretty much whatever he pleases as the league’s longest tenured senior photographer.Photographers have long played a critical role in shaping narratives in a league defined by faces and moments. The most iconic posters are the finished works of the photographers who position themselves along the baseline each game, often contorting their bodies and forgetting about personal comfort to get closer and take countless snaps, in hopes of capturing a masterpiece.In today’s N.B.A., they allow players to use those photographs as building blocks for their social media profiles. They have adapted to an ever-changing digital world that has presented new opportunities and a whole new set of challenges.On game day, Butler uses a combination of tethered remotes and custom phone apps to operate any number of cameras in an arena.He sends photographs to a team of editors in Secaucus, N.J., with the press of a button. In seconds, they can be published on the league’s official social media feeds and reach millions of people around the world.Despite the technological advances, shooting an N.B.A. game can be more difficult than one would think. “A basketball game is a complex situation,” said Bruce Ely, the lead photographer of the Portland Trail Blazers. “There are a lot of moving parts.”Like a fan’s arms waving across the frame just as Damian Lillard makes a 3-pointer. Or the leg of another player sneaking into the edge of the image, ruining a portrait. Another time, it might be a referee walking into a perfect shot.Despite the challenges, some N.B.A. photographers do not consider it their most difficult assignment. Nelson Campana, who photographs the Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team, regularly shoots weddings as well. The pressure of game night is nothing compared with the responsibility of chronicling a couple’s special day.“You have one night to make it right,” Campana said. “There’s a list of things you need to get, and you don’t get another chance. At a basketball game, you’re just hoping things happen.”Some nights, there is too much happening at the same time. As the Oklahoma City Thunder eliminated the San Antonio Spurs in the 2016 playoffs, Butler had to make a split-second decision about what to photograph at the buzzer. He focused on Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook embracing, and then got a shot of Durant with Tim Duncan. He stayed with Durant afterward, but that meant missing a chance to capture Duncan walking off an N.B.A. court for the final time.“Ideally,” Butler said, “I would like to be in two places at one time.”While some players enjoy being on the other side of these photographers’ lenses, others say it is an adjustment. Aaron Gordon of the Orlando Magic first remembers being in front of a camera as a high schooler being interviewed after winning a basketball tournament.“You have to live in a way where you’re O.K. with being seen,” Gordon said. “You’re always being watched these days.”Because so many photos are being taken, players have to accept that they can control only so much of what is shared online.“You want to nitpick every single picture,” said John Collins, a second-year forward with the Atlanta Hawks. “But it just can’t work that way. You can’t read everything about yourself and see every photo of yourself.”To take more control over their visual narratives on social media, players are working with photographers to shoot them outside basketball arenas.Cassy Athena is a professional photographer who has earned the trust of players around the league. Last season, at All-Star Weekend in Los Angeles, Athena followed Stephen Curry and his wife, Ayesha, for the entire weekend. She was also invited by Indiana Pacers guard Victor Oladipo to shoot him at New York Fashion Week in 2018.Athena says it takes time to convince certain players of the value of her photographs.“It’s not so much they don’t understand the importance of the moment,” she said. “It’s convincing them why they should share it with the world. When it clicks, you get guys who might not be the best N.B.A. player, but they use this” — meaning Instagram and professional photos — “to build their own brand and further their careers.”Older, more established players worry less about their online persona but more about how the images carry a nostalgic value as their careers wind down.“What photographers do may seem minute,” said Vince Carter, 42, who just ended his 21st season in the league. “But I’ve seen so many shots of the best moments of my career, and in some ways, they’ve helped me remember those moments.”Many of these iconic images can now be seen on the Instagram pages of the photographers themselves. Bernstein said he was the last guy dragged kicking and screaming into the social media era. He now enjoys posting classic pictures for Throwback Thursday.Butler adds watermarks to the photographs he posts on his feed because other accounts and publications will often publish them without giving him credit. But he recognizes the value of being online. “It opens you up to a whole other audience,” Butler said.The rise of social media accounts means there are now more photographers at N.B.A. games. Butler prefers to use a camera lens that does not require him to be right in the face of players to capture them up close. In the modern era, he has noticed a lot of camera phones being shoved into players’ faces.“There’s an etiquette that doesn’t exist anymore,” Butler said. “Not just in sports, but in society.”Even though photographers want to capture every moment, some also realize that there are boundaries. A few months ago, Kyrie Irving and Durant had a private conversation at All-Star Weekend in Charlotte, N.C., which was captured on film. It was circulated online, and many believed the two were discussing their heavily rumored plans to join the Knicks together this summer.“If I was a player, that would bother me,” Butler said. “You don’t have to document every second of their existence.”Bernstein had a similar decision to make more than 30 years ago, during the 1988 N.B.A. finals, when he walked through the Lakers’ locker room after a loss and found Magic Johnson and Michael Cooper with their uniforms on, dejected as the showers were running around them.It was a one-of-a-kind moment, but Bernstein opted against taking the photograph.“That was their time,” Bernstein said. “That didn’t need to be documented. I have that picture in my mind, and that’s enough.”An earlier version of this article described Nelson Campana’s job incorrectly. He photographs the Toronto Raptors as an employee of Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, which owns the team; he is not the team photographer.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro BasketballBy Scott CacciolaATLANTA — Kyle Kuzma had his first interaction with LeBron James a little more than a year ago, when Kuzma was a first-year forward with the Los Angeles Lakers and James was a few months from dragging the Cleveland Cavaliers to another appearance in the N.B.A. finals. Kuzma had reached out by phone, hoping for some tips.“Just wanted to see how one of the greats takes care of his body and has so much longevity,” Kuzma recalled this week in an interview. “Everybody wants to play basketball for as long as possible.”So much has changed since that initial conversation. Kuzma and James are teammates now, and Kuzma is experiencing the unique challenges that come with playing alongside one of the game’s behemoths. At the same time, James’s body finally betrayed him this season, which has only heightened the sense of urgency within the organization: The Lakers, who have missed the playoffs for five years running, are not in position for a patient rebuild.James, at 34, may still be in his prime, but the stakes are already high for a franchise that desperately wants to maximize his time in Los Angeles. And while neither James nor Lakers management has shown much enthusiasm for coaxing along a young core — the Lakers tried to ship half the roster to New Orleans last week — they are stuck in this together. James was supposed to be the savior of a flagship franchise gone astray; salvaging the final months of this year would be a key indicator that he still wields that type of power.“We have to approach the rest of the season just like you would during the playoffs,” Kuzma said.As Kuzma recalled his talk with James, he had no way of knowing that the Lakers were mere hours from suffering one final implosion before the N.B.A. All-Star break — a 117-113 loss to the Atlanta Hawks that left the team with a losing record and ample opportunity for soul searching.“It’s time for us to get away and reflect a little bit about where we are as a group,” Coach Luke Walton said. “I think this first part of the season, we’ve gone through a lot of adversity. And we’re probably not where we want to be, but we’re still close enough.”Close enough, that is, for vying for a spot in the playoffs, which was both an indication of the team’s modest goals and its sad reality. At 28-29, the Lakers are in 10th place in the Western Conference standings. It is unfamiliar territory for James, who has not been on a losing team this late in a season since he was a first-year forward with the Cavaliers.“But with LeBron on your team, anything is possible,” said Mychal Thompson, a power forward for the Showtime-era Lakers and an analyst for the team’s radio broadcasts. “I mean, look at some of the teams he’s taken to the finals — including last season. He’s capable of doing great things if you just get on board and run with him.”The Lakers, though, seem fragile after nearly five months of drama — all of it stemming directly or indirectly from the $154 million deal that James signed to join the team last summer. The pressure was on from the start, and little has gone according to plan.“There’s been more noise this year,” Walton said, “but that was to be expected with the moves in the off-season. That was something to be anticipated.”Where to begin? Brandon Ingram and Rajon Rondo were suspended for trying to brawl with the Houston Rockets two games into the season. Magic Johnson, the team’s outspoken president of basketball operations, chastised Walton in a closed-door meeting for the team’s slow start, igniting lasting questions about Walton’s job security. Nearly every player on the roster has been injured, and that includes James, who missed 17 games with a strained groin.And lest we forget: Last week, Johnson and General Manager Rob Pelinka tried to trade away nearly half the roster to the New Orleans Pelicans for Anthony Davis, who, before the start of the season, hired the same agent who represents James. It was the clearest sign yet that Johnson is willing to attempt the very boldest moves — no matter the residual damage.Consider that the Lakers, amid their ultimately fruitless effort to pry Davis away from the Pelicans, lost by 42 points to the Indiana Pacers. And with rumors of which Lakers would be traded swirling through social media, it was difficult to find arguments in their defense — even from James himself.Kuzma, who was offered up as one of the pieces in a potential deal, said it had been difficult to drown out the noise.“It’s definitely tough,” he said, “because this generation, you’re always on your phone, always on social media, always seeing it somewhere on TV.”But the trade deadline passed, and the roster more or less remained intact. There had been a sense that a surprising win against the Boston Celtics on Feb. 7 would galvanize the team in the wake of so much uncertainty. And even after losing to the Philadelphia 76ers three days later, the Lakers still had a chance to build some momentum against the Hawks on Tuesday.Before the game, James appeared to be in an upbeat mood. In the locker room, he knelt on a giant inflatable ball as he worked on some core-strengthening exercises. He crooned the lyrics to “Plug Walk” by the hip-hop artist Rich the Kid. He made small talk with Ingram. It was all vintage James.About three hours later, once the Lakers had punctuated their loss with a turnover, James made a beeline off the court and into the tunnel. He was practically steaming. He had finished with his fifth triple-double of the season — 28 points, 16 assists, 11 rebounds — but the Lakers’ defense was as porous as a coffee filter, and the result was just as messy.“I can throw that game in the trash,” James said.In a three-minute postgame session with reporters, Kuzma mentioned the concept of “fun” five times — specifically, the notion that the Lakers were not having much of it.“A lot of times we’re out there with sad faces, very focused faces,” Kuzma said. “But I think we’re at our best when we’re having fun.”Fun may not be the primary objective for James, and the psychic effects of the loss are sure to linger until at least Feb. 21, when their season will resume after the All-Star break with a home game against the Houston Rockets. For now, though, the best thing for these players may be to be away from each other for a while, which was one of Walton’s suggestions before they parted for the break.“Spend some time by yourself,” he said, and added: “I think we’ve got a group that will be ready by the time we get back.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGeneral manager Vlade Divac and the Sacramento Kings agreed to a four-year contract through the 2022-23 season, according to The Athletic.Financial terms were not announced.Divac, who became GM in early 2015, has built a nucleus of promising young players that includes Marvin Bagley III, Buddy Hield, De'Aaron Fox and Bogdan Bogdanovic.The Kings finished 39-43 this season and in ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. That was the Kings' best record since 2005-06 - the last time they qualified for the playoffs.The Kings started 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt, however, until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final spot.Divac, 51, played 16 seasons in the NBA for the Kings, Los Angeles Lakers and Charlotte Hornets. He will be enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in September.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSacramento Kings coach Dave Joerger was fired Thursday after three seasons, the team announced."After evaluating the season, I determined that we need to move in a different direction in order to take us to the next level," general manager Vlade Divac said. "On behalf of the entire Kings organization, I want to thank Dave for his contributions to our team and I wish him all the best."Joerger led the Kings to a 39-43 record this season, good for ninth place in the NBA's Western Conference. It was their best record since 2005-06 -- the last time they qualified for the playoffs.The Kings started this season at 30-26 and were in the playoff hunt until a 9-17 finish left them nine games behind the Los Angeles Clippers for the final spot.Joerger, 45, has six years of NBA head coaching experience, the first three with Memphis (2013-16) and the next three in Sacramento. His overall coaching record is 245-247 and 98-148 with the Kings.His dismissal came on the same day that Divac and the Kings agreed to a four-year contract through the 2022-23 season, according to The Athletic.Divac, who became GM in early 2015, has built a nucleus of promising young players that includes Marvin Bagley III, Buddy Hield, De'Aaron Fox and Bogdan Bogdanovic.Divac, 51, played 16 seasons in the NBA for the Kings, Los Angeles Lakers and Charlotte Hornets. He will be enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in September.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTexas Tech standout Jarrett Culver, the Big 12 Player of the Year, announced Thursday he will forgo his last two seasons in Lubbock and declare for the 2019 NBA Draft.The 6-foot-5, 195-pound guard made the announcement during a press conference in Lubbock, Texas.Culver helped lead the Red Raiders to a share of the Big 12 regular-season title and was effective in this year's NCAA Tournament, where Texas Tech fell to Virginia 85-77 in overtime in the national championship game.On the season, Culver averaged 18.5 points, 6.4 rebounds and 3.7 assists per game while the Red Raiders set a school record with 31 wins.--Also announcing his plans to declare for the draft was 18-year-old Russian Nikita Mikhailovskii, according to a report by ESPN.The 6-foot-8, 180-pound wing is trying to become the first Russian player drafted since 2013 when Sergey Karasev was chosen with the 19th pick by the Cleveland Cavaliers.Mikhailovskii spent the past season playing in the mostly Russian VTB United League and FIBA Europe Cup, averaging 7.8 points in 16.8 minutes while shooting 43.9 percent from 3-point range in 45 games.--The Memphis Grizzlies hired two former general managers to their front office, adding Rich Cho as vice president of strategy and Glen Grunwald as senior adviser.Cho is a former GM of the Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers, and Grunwald was GM of the New York Knicks and Toronto Raptors.The Grizzlies demoted former GM Chris Wallace to a scouting role in a flurry of moves last week, including the firing of head coach J.B. Bickerstaff and the promotion of Zach Kleiman to executive vice president of basketball operations.--Los Angeles Clippers assistant general manager Trent Redden reportedly is close to interviewing for a senior front-office role with the New Orleans Pelicans.The Clippers gave the Pelicans permission to discuss the position with Redden, ESPN reported, citing league sources.David Griffin, the Pelicans' new executive vice president of basketball operations, worked closely with Redden when they with the Cleveland Cavaliers during their 2016 NBA championship season. ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski noted that Griffin is expected to be "aggressive" in pursuing Redden.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.He secured his season high in points with a straightaway 3-pointer, his fifth of the game, early in the third quarter for 22 points. That was followed by a rare slam dunk that elicited howls from the crowd and a big smile across Nowitzki's face.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history then drained another jumper for 26 points and an 80-49 Dallas lead. He re-entered the game with three minutes left and hit two more buckets to go 11 of 31 from the floor. He finished with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 32 minutes.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points -- one off his career best -- with 26 coming in the fourth quarter, to get the Suns as close as 105-100 with 4:20 to play.Crawford, 39, became the oldest player ever to score 50-plus points in an NBA game. The old mark was held by Michael Jordan, who was 38 when he scored 51 for the Washington Wizards on Dec. 29, 2001, against the Charlotte Hornets.According to ESPN, Crawford also became the first player to score 50 points for four different franchises (Chicago Bulls, New York Knicks, Golden State Warriors and now Phoenix).The Suns closed out a miserable season, finishing 19-63.A longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery kept Nowitzki out until mid-December. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career, and averaged 6.6 points in less than 15 minutes a game before Tuesday.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted "M-V-P! M-V-P!" Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2006-07 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.The future of the Mavs (33-48), rookie Luka Doncic, also didn't disappoint, notching his eighth triple-double with 21 points, 11 assists and 16 rebounds. He moved into sole possession of third place for most triple-doubles by a rookie.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott CacciolaKenny Anderson, a celebrated point guard from Queens who had a 14-year N.B.A. career, was hospitalized over the weekend after suffering a stroke.Lina Catalfamo Plath, a family spokeswoman, said via email that Anderson was recovering. Plath also released a statement from Anderson’s wife, Natasha.“We would like to thank everyone for reaching out on behalf of Kenny,” Natasha Anderson said in the statement. “Our family is extremely grateful for all the prayers and love that we have received over the last few days. We appreciate you continuing to respect our privacy as Kenny heals.”Anderson, 48, recently concluded his first season as the men’s basketball coach at Fisk University, a historically black school in Nashville that plays at the N.A.I.A. level.As a high school player at Archbishop Molloy, a powerhouse program in Queens, Anderson was one of the most prolific and high-profile players in the city’s rich basketball history. A McDonald’s All-American, Anderson set what was then a state scoring record with 2,621 points before enrolling at Georgia Tech, where he helped the team reach the Final Four in 1990.After Anderson spent two seasons at Georgia Tech, the New Jersey Nets made him the second overall pick in the 1991 N.B.A. draft — Larry Johnson went first to the Charlotte Hornets — and Anderson enjoyed a productive career that never quite lived up to the hype that had followed him since he was a teenager. He averaged 12.6 points and 6.1 assists a game while playing for nine teams, including the Boston Celtics and the Portland Trail Blazers, and was an All-Star selection for the Nets in 1994.A 2017 documentary on Anderson called “Mr. Chibbs” detailed many of his personal struggles, including bankruptcy and depression. In 2014, he traveled to North Korea as a member of the team that Dennis Rodman, the former Chicago Bulls forward, cobbled together at the invitation of Kim Jong-un, the country’s leader.“My mistakes weren’t really mistakes,” Anderson said in an interview with The New York Times in 2011. “It was being young and living and learning. Yes, I spent a lot of money; I went through a lot of money. I had some failed marriages — if you want to criticize me for that. You can’t cry about your mishaps. I count my blessings, I don’t count my mishaps.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHere are the winners and losers even before the opening tip of the 2019 NBA playoffs:BIG WINNER: The NBA.Without LeBron James around anymore, the Eastern Conference playoffs are actually unpredictable. Imagine that. Well, starting with the second round, anyway. When the Boston Celtics passed the Indiana Pacers late in the regular season, it increased the chances of the East's Big Four -- the Milwaukee Bucks, Toronto Raptors, Philadelphia 76ers and Boston -- getting together for some pretty great basketball in early May. And a potential Houston Rockets-Golden State Warriors semi in the West? More must-see TV. Coming soon.BIG LOSER: Dwyane Wade.Gotta say: Tuesday night was an all-timer in the NBA, highlighted by the going-away parties for Wade and Dirk Nowitzki. It was a shame they had to share the national stage, and that's on Wade. If he'd been inspired to put on more dazzling displays like his grand finale and fewer like the lackluster effort in the February home blowout loss to the Detroit Pistons that in the end cost the Heat a playoff spot, we'd be seeing a potential seven-game Wade vs. Giannis extravaganza starting this weekend.SMALL WINNER: Neil Olshey.Did anyone notice that the Portland Trail Blazers actually got better just when their season appeared to blow up when Jusuf Nurkic and CJ McCollum got hurt late in the tightly contested Western playoff battle? Credit Olshey, the Portland general manager who had the foresight to add another big quality man (Enes Kanter) and another scorer (Rodney Hood) before things got desperate. Now it's Kanter vs. Oklahoma City's Steven Adams in a true rarity -- a classic battle of big men -- in a powerful first-round duel of former teammates.SMALL LOSER: Giannis Antetokounmpo.Yes, it could have been Giannis vs. Wade. Or Giannis vs. the entertaining Brooklyn Nets, against whom he had a triple-double and averaged nearly 30 points a game. Even Giannis vs. the Charlotte Hornets' Kemba Walker would have been better than ... Giannis vs. the Pistons. Ugh. The Bucks dominated their Central Division rival this season, sweeping the four-game series, even though Detroit coach Dwane Casey found a way to suck the life out of the MVP candidate, twice holding Giannis to 15 points. Do yourself a favor: When Bucks-Pistons Game 1 comes on television this weekend, switch over to the Masters. Even a replay if need be.LOSERS WHO'LL SOON BE WINNERS: Kevin Durant, Kawhi Leonard, Kyrie Irving.The curtain closed on the regular season with Anthony Davis getting booed by his home (former) fans, even though he's still under contract with the New Orleans Pelicans. You got LeBron on the sideline and Magic Johnson out of work, and it's all interrelated. And don't think it ends now that the playoffs are here. The over/under is 24: the number of hours between the season-ending loss and the announcement that Durant, Leonard and Irving are out of here. Who will be the first to get the Davis treatment on his way out the door? Somewhere, odds are being posted.--By Dave Del Grande, Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCLEVELAND — Kemba Walker scored 23 points and the Charlotte Hornets pulled away in the fourth quarter to keep their late-season playoff push going with a 124-97 win Tuesday night over the Cleveland Cavaliers, whose painful first season rebuilding without LeBron James is finally over.The Hornets (39-42) had to win to have any chance of beating out Detroit and Miami for the No. 8 spot in the Eastern Conference. Charlotte did its part and must now beat Orlando at home on Wednesday and hope the Pistons (39-42) lose in New York to clinch its first playoff berth in three years.Detroit rallied to beat Memphis 100-93, setting up a dramatic final day of the season.Jeremy Lamb added 23 points and Miles Bridges and Dwayne Bacon scored 18 apiece as the Hornets won their fourth straight.The Cavs dropped their 10th in a row to finish 19-63, the fourth-worst record in franchise history and just the fifth time they've failed to win at least 20.Cleveland again played without star forward Kevin Love, whose season was sabotaged early by a toe injury that required surgery and altered everything for the Cavs. Love's situation made things even tougher on the Cavs, who initially believed they could compete while recovering from the loss of James as a free agent for the second time.Now the focus turns to coach Larry Drew's future and next month's NBA draft lottery.Rookie Collin Sexton scored 18 points and had a season-high 10 assists for the Cavs. He also joined Larry Bird (1979-80) and Stephen Curry (2009-10) as the only rookies in league history to average at least 16 points while making over 40% of their 3-pointers and 80% of their free throws.If the Hornets get back to the postseason for the first time in three years, Walker will be the reason.The three-time All-Star, who is scheduled to become a free agent on July 1, is averaging 34.4 points in his last five games.TIP-INSHornets: F Michael Kidd-Gilchrist was not with the team for the second straight game because of personal reasons. ... Walker enters Wednesday's game — perhaps the final one of his career with Charlotte — as the franchise leader in points and made 3-pointers, field goals and free throws. He's second in assists behind Muggsy Bogues and third in games played behind Dell Curry and Bogues.Cavaliers: Love played 13 minutes on Sunday as a salute to close friend Channing Frye, who is retiring after 13 seasons. Love was limited to just 22 games this season because of the toe and other injuries. He'll consider playing this summer for Team USA. ... Frye was given a rousing ovation when he checked in and a video tribute from former teammates was shown. Dwyane Wade said, "I thought you already retired." Frye scored 10 in the fourth quarter. ... Sexton scored in double figures in his final 23 games. He's the first Cavs rookie to play all 82 games since Andre Miller in 1999-2000. ... G Matthew Dellavedova missed the final 17 games with a concussion sustained on March 6 at Brooklyn.UP NEXTHornets: Lost to the Magic, Wednesday's opponent, by 38 on Feb. 14.Cavaliers: Eagerly await the NBA draft lottery on May 12.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperSince moving to Brooklyn in 2012, the Nets have closely aligned their brand with that of Christopher Wallace, the rapper known as the Notorious B.I.G., who grew up a brisk walk from where Barclays Center was later built to host the N.B.A. But a special version of the team’s jersey, with a design inspired by Wallace, is at the center of a copyright violation lawsuit against the Nets, the N.B.A. and Nike filed by the clothing brand Coogi in Manhattan federal court Wednesday.Before the season, the Nets debuted their new Nike-manufactured “City Edition” jerseys, which feature a multicolored striped pattern down the sides that the team called “Brooklyn Camo.” In marketing materials, the team said the jerseys were inspired by Wallace.The “Brooklyn Camo” pattern bears a close resemblance to patterns Coogi has used in its clothing for years, and for which it claims to have over 300 design copyrights. Coogi, a New York-based brand, is also heavily associated with Wallace. The rapper was photographed in Coogi’s clothing, and he referred to the brand in at least two of his songs, including the hit “Hypnotize.”Wallace never rapped about or wore “Brooklyn Camo,” Coogi says in its lawsuit, and the company claims that the jerseys copy its designs, specifically the “Pea Soup” and “Ricotta” patterns. The lawsuit also says one of the defendants purchased advertisements on Google searches for “Coogi Brooklyn Nets” and “Brooklyn Coogi” in order to direct people looking for genuine Coogi products to instead buy Nets merchandise.In a statement to The New York Times, Mike Bass, the N.B.A.’s spokesman, said, “There is no merit whatsoever to their claims.”The Nets and Nike declined to comment on the lawsuit.None of the defendants have filed a response to Coogi’s claim. But attached to Coogi’s lawsuit are letters exchanged between Coogi’s legal counsel and an N.B.A. lawyer, which detail possible legal defenses for the league, team and Nike.In a letter from November, Michael Potenza, the N.B.A.’s intellectual property counsel, wrote to a lawyer for Coogi that the league was “unaware of any design owned by your client to which the Brooklyn Camo is substantially similar.” Potenza explained why the case law on trademark infringement would make it difficult for Coogi to prove its claims, and said the Brooklyn Camo design did not confuse customers. He also said that the N.B.A. obtained consent from the estate of Wallace, who was killed in 1997, to use his name in association with the jersey.In a later letter, Potenza wrote that the Brooklyn Camo design is not similar to Coogi’s designs for a number of reasons: brighter colors, narrower stripes that are horizontal instead vertical, and positioning only on the piping of the jersey, not across the entire top as in Coogi’s designs.On Friday, the first 10,000 fans in attendance for the Nets game against the Charlotte Hornets will receive a Notorious B.I.G. bobblehead.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressKyrie Irving scored 37 points and the Boston Celtics rallied late in the fourth quarter to beat the Indiana Pacers by 99-91 on Wednesday night. The win gave Boston a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven, first-round seriesComing out of a timeout and with a chance to tie, the Pacers’ Wesley Matthews threw an inbounds pass into the bench on the other side of the court with 12.1 seconds left. On the ensuing play, the Celtics’ Al Horford passed to Jayson Tatum, who was fouled on a two-handed dunk. He completed the three-point play to make it 97-91 with 8.8 seconds left.The Pacers turned it over again and the Celtics were able to close out the game at the free throw line.Tatum scored 26 points, including a thunderous dunk down the stretch to help punctuate a 10-0 run by Boston over the final five minutes.[Read: Jayson Tatum has a daily reminder of the booming dunk he delivered on LeBron James last year.]Bojan Bogdanovic led Indiana with 23 points. Thaddeus Young added 15 points.Indiana led by 79-68 entering the fourth. Horford opened the final period scoring on a hook shot in the lane and Tyreke Evans responded with a 3-pointer on Indiana’s first possession.But then Boston caught fire, using a 16-0 run, including eight straight by Irving, to take an 86-82 lead with 5:04 to play. Indiana missed 10 straight shots during the run, finally breaking a nearly eight-minute scoring drought with a 3-pointer by Matthews in front of the Celtics’ bench.Horford had been a game-time decision with an illness, but was able to remain in the Celtics’ starting lineup. He was noticeably a step slower at the outset and didn’t take his first shot until late in the second quarter. He didn’t score his first points until the fourth, finishing with four points, 10 rebounds and four assists for the game.Game 3 is Friday in Indiana.BUCKS 120, PISTONS 99 Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 13 of his 26 points in Milwaukee’s big third quarter and the Bucks beat the Detroit Pistons, 120-99, on Wednesday night to take a 2-0 lead in the first-round playoff series.Eric Bledsoe led the Bucks with 27 points, and Khris Middleton had 24. Milwaukee is trying win a playoff series for the first time since 2001.Luke Kennard had 19 points for Detroit. Reggie Jackson and Andre Drummond each added 18, and Drummond had 16 rebounds. Detroit star Blake Griffin sat out again with a left knee injury, but received a technical for the second straight game for arguing from the bench.After scoring 10 points and playing only 14 minutes in the first half because of foul trouble, Antetokounmpo scored Milwaukee’s first seven points in the third quarter. The Bucks outscored Detroit 35-17 in the period to take a 93-76 lead into the fourth.Detroit clawed within seven in the fourth before the Bucks put it away, capped by a hard drive by Antetokounmpo on a break. He banked in an awkward reverse-angle shot while crashing to the floor after being fouled by Drummond. He competed the three-point play it make it 105-87.Game 3 is Saturday night in Detroit.GRIZZLIES HIRE EXECUTIVES The Memphis Grizzlies have hired Rich Cho as vice president of basketball strategy and Glen Grunwald as a senior adviser within the franchise’s basketball operations department.Cho is a former Charlotte Hornets and Portland Trail Blazers general manager. Grunwald was general manager of the Knicks and the Toronto Raptors.Before coming to Portland, Cho was an assistant general manager with the Seattle SuperSonics and continued in that role when the franchise became the Oklahoma City Thunder. Grunwald worked with the Knicks from 2006-13, serving as executive vice president and general manager for the final two seasons of that stretch. He was Toronto’s general manager from 1997 to 2004.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — Dwyane Wade scored 30 points in the tribute-filled final home game of his career, and the Miami Heat defeated the Philadelphia 76ers 122-99 on Tuesday night.Bam Adebayo scored 19, Justise Winslow scored 16 and Hassan Whiteside added 15 for the Heat, who were eliminated from playoff contention when Detroit beat Memphis — a result that went final during the third quarter of the Miami-Philly game.Wade's career will end Wednesday in Brooklyn, when Miami plays its regular-season finale. He checked out for the last time with 1:02 left, embracing teammates and his son Zaire — who was on the Heat bench.Greg Monroe scored 18 points and Ben Simmons scored 16 for Philadelphia, which entered Tuesday already locked into the No. 3 seed for the Eastern Conference playoffs and rested Joel Embiid and J.J. Redick. Simmons played only 21 minutes, Tobias Harris shot 3 for 16 in 20 minutes and Jimmy Butler scored only four points in 16 minutes.Butler did get one prize — he was the recipient of Wade's final postgame jersey exchange with an opponent.Jonathon Simmons scored 14 for the 76ers.Wade scored the first basket of the game on a dunk, Philadelphia scored the next eight — and it was all Miami the rest of the way. Winslow had three 3-pointers and Wade scored six points in a 22-2 Heat run that put Miami in control early, and the outcome was never in question again.The final minutes were all Wade. He swished a 3-pointer. He banked in a pair of them. He got slapped on his backside by a fan — in this case, it was permitted, since the fan was his wife Gabrielle Union-Wade. He scored 14 of his points in that final quarter.It was his night, and only his night.The game was the sideshow.The reason every seat was filled was Wade.There was a pregame ceremony, capping a day of tributes. Former President Barack Obama sent a video that was played during the first quarter. Wade's oldest sons and his nephew appeared in taped messages as well. John Legend and Chrissy Teigen were courtside, as was Heat legend Chris Bosh and his wife Adrienne.The ovations were constant, as were the "M-V-P" chants. And one of the loudest roars came with 11:05 left, when Wade and Udonis Haslem — the only two players to play for all three Heat championship teams, and the longest-tenured Heat players ever — checked in together.TIP-INS76ers: This is the first time Philadelphia has posted consecutive seasons of 50 or more wins since 1984-85 and 1985-86. ... Philadelphia missed 17 of its first 18 tries from 3-point range.Heat: It took Haslem less than a minute to do one of the things he does best — take a charge. ... Wade played in 575 games in a Heat uniform at home. Miami won 401 of them, and he scored 13,323 points in those contests.McGRUDER DECISIONMiami will not be a tax team this year, saving about a $5 million payment because Rodney McGruder was claimed Tuesday by the Los Angeles Clippers — two days after he was waived by the Heat. If Miami had won at Toronto on Sunday, McGruder would likely still be with the Heat. "That was one of the tougher franchise moves our organization has had to make," said coach Erik Spoelstra, who raves about McGruder.REST DAYThe 76ers plan to sit Embiid and Redick again Wednesday, and will also give Ben Simmons and Harris the night off. "Some people like to have a rhythm going into it, some people like to have time off. I don't think you can appoint the perfect formula," 76ers coach Brett Brown said.UP NEXT76ers: Host Chicago on Wednesday.Heat: Visit Brooklyn on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDwyane Wade scored 30 points in a tribute-filled final home game on Tuesday, but despite a 122-99 victory over Philadelphia, the Miami Heat were eliminated from playoff contention.Wade’s career will end Wednesday in Brooklyn. He checked out with 1:02 left, embracing teammates and his son, Zaire.Wade scored the first basket of the game on a dunk, Philadelphia scored the next eight — and it was all Miami the rest of the way.In the final minutes, Wade swished a 3-pointer and banked in two more en route to 14 points in the final quarter.MAVERICKS 120, SUNS 109 Dirk Nowitzki scored a season-high 30 points in what was most likely the final home game of the 40-year-old’s 21st season.The 14-time All-Star scored the team’s first 10 points and passed his previous season high of 21 on a 3-pointer early in the third quarter. The Mavericks end their season Wednesday in San Antonio.Jamal Crawford scored 51 points for Phoenix (19-63), which had by far the worst record in the Western Conference.Fans stood during warm-ups, recording Nowitzki in the layup line on their phones. The 7-foot German obliged with a dunk. Then he had another dunk in the game — his second of the season — in the second half.Nowitzki fought back tears during a tribute video in between the first and second quarters.KNICKS 96, BULLS 86 Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points, Mitchell Robinson added eight points and 17 rebounds and the Knicks escaped the possibility of finishing with the worst record in franchise history.With one game remaining, against Detroit, the Knicks (17-64) can only tie the mark of the 2014-15 team. They already secured the N.B.A.’s worst record and a draft position no worse than fifth.The Bulls, meanwhile, lost for the 32nd time at United Center this season, a franchise record.PISTONS 100, GRIZZLIES 93 Andre Drummond had 20 points and 17 rebounds, as host Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to cling to a playoff spot.Detroit can clinch a bid Wednesday night at New York.HORNETS 124, CAVALIERS 97 Kemba Walker scored 23 points and visiting Charlotte kept its playoff push alive. The Hornets (39-42) must now beat Orlando at home on Wednesday and hope the Pistons (39-42) lose in New York.WARRIORS 112, PELICANS 103 DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds for visiting Golden State, which took Stephen Curry out of the game after nine minutes with a mild foot sprain.The Warriors said Curry was held out as a precaution, having already had clinched the top playoff seed in the Western Conference. They also played without Kevin Durant and Klay Thompson.The game also likely marked the end of the Anthony Davis era in New Orleans. The disgruntled All-Star, who missed his seventh straight game with what the team has officially listed as back spasms, wore a T-shirt that said, “That’s All Folks.”CELTICS 116, WIZARDS 110 Bradley Beal 16 points, five rebounds and four assists — all before halftime — to become the first player in Washington Wizards franchise history to average at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists for a season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFor Dwyane Wade's final NBA game, where else would his so-called Banana Boat Crew members be but on hand to see it?Wade ended his 16-year career Wednesday night when his Miami Heat visited the Brooklyn Nets at the Barclays Center, and among the spectators were his longtime friends and fellow NBA stars LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony.Of course they would be there, James said during the game. James was shut down for several of the Lakers' final games and Paul's Thunder played their final regular-season game Tuesday night. Anthony did not sign with another NBA team after his release from the Rockets this season."Listen, we all started this journey together," James told Fox Sports Southeast. "Obviously CP came into the league a couple years after us, but we have a brotherhood that is just so much more than basketball. CP played last night, we had our last regular-season game last night, and Melo is right here in New York, so we kind of made the plan and made the decision to come up here."The friends often travel together during the summer and picked up the Banana Boat Crew moniker after photos of them riding in one circulated on social media in 2016.James, who won two NBA titles with Wade in Miami, two of the three Wade won altogether, was asked about favorite memories of his friendship with Wade. James said a good answer to that would take a while."I mean, we'd be here all night talking. We'd be here all night talking about the best memories, or the most fond memories I have of D-Wade."The plane rides, the bus rides, the hotels when we get to the city we'd go to the hotel room and just chop it up, the dinners we had on the road, everything we did was always genuine. (There was) always love, and we always wanted the best for one another, no matter the good or the bad."I will say the most founding part was when we lost (to Dallas in 2011). Because, without ‘11, there's no (2013), no (2012 championship) banners hanging up in (AmericanAirlines Arena). That's what made us. That's what made our team."It's been an unbelievable journey for my guy, and I'm happy to be here for the last little part of the road before the train comes to a stop."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDwyane Wade ended his storied career with a triple-double of 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists Wednesday night as the visiting Miami Heat were dealt a 113-94 loss to the Brooklyn Nets, who clinched sixth place in the Eastern Conference.The Nets honored Wade with a video tribute in pregame introductions by highlighting some of his notable shots against them over the course of a 16-year career while the text on the screen read "Thanks for the Memories."With longtime friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony sitting courtside, Wade recorded his fifth career triple-double in his 1,054th regular-season game since entering the league as the fifth overall pick out of Marquette in 2003.Wade played 36 minutes and received a loud hand from fans each time he touched the ball. He made 10 of 28 shots, and his last points were a 3-pointer with 2:48 remaining.Wade exited the court for the last time with 10 seconds remaining. Before leaving the court, he embraced teammates on the floor, then hugged coach Erik Spoelstra and waved to the crowd.After the final buzzer, Wade exchanged hugs at midcourt with Anthony, James, and Paul and posed with pictures with his longtime friends. He then gave his jersey to Anthony.Appropriately, Wade reached his first triple-double since Jan. 13, 2006, by connecting with longtime teammate Udonis Haslem for a jumper in the final minute of the third quarter.Brooklyn (42-40) secured the sixth seed and will open its first postseason series since 2014-15 this weekend in Philadelphia. The Nets also clinched their first winning season since 2013-14 by going 34-22 over their last 56 games since Dec. 7.D'Angelo Russell, who ended his rookie season by appearing in Kobe Bryant's last game in 2016 with the Los Angeles Lakers, led the Nets with 21 points.After Brooklyn took a 63-47 lead into halftime, Russell hit four three 3-pointers in the first two minutes of the third quarter, including three in a span of 46 seconds, as the Nets extended their lead to 75-50. Brooklyn brought a 92-71 edge into the fourth.Miami opened the fourth on a 13-5 run and was within 97-84 when Wade re-entered the game with 7:20 left.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFor Dwyane Wade's final NBA game, where else would his so-called Banana Boat Crew members be but on hand to see it?Wade ended his 16-year career with a bang Wednesday night, producing his fifth career triple-double as he amassed 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in the Miami Heat's 113-94 loss to the Brooklyn Nets.Sitting courtside to watch Wade in his final NBA game were his longtime friends and fellow NBA stars LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony.Of course they would be there, James said during the game. James was shut down for several of the Lakers' final games and Paul's Houston Rockets played their final regular-season game Tuesday night. Anthony did not sign with another NBA team after his release from the Chicago Bulls this season after he was traded by the Rockets."Listen, we all started this journey together," James told Fox Sports Southeast. "Obviously CP came into the league a couple years after us, but we have a brotherhood that is just so much more than basketball. CP played last night, we had our last regular-season game last night, and Melo is right here in New York, so we kind of made the plan and made the decision to come up here."The friends often travel together during the summer and picked up the Banana Boat Crew moniker after photos of them riding in one circulated on social media in 2016.James, who won two NBA titles with Wade in Miami, two of the three Wade won altogether, was asked about favorite memories of his friendship with Wade. James said a good answer to that would take a while."I mean, we'd be here all night talking. We'd be here all night talking about the best memories, or the most fond memories I have of D-Wade."The plane rides, the bus rides, the hotels when we get to the city we'd go to the hotel room and just chop it up, the dinners we had on the road, everything we did was always genuine. (There was) always love, and we always wanted the best for one another, no matter the good or the bad."I will say the most founding part was when we lost (to Dallas in 2011). Because, without '11, there's no (2013), no (2012 championship) banners hanging up in (AmericanAirlines Arena). That's what made us. That's what made our team."It's been an unbelievable journey for my guy, and I'm happy to be here for the last little part of the road before the train comes to a stop."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — A flight was awaiting Miami Heat President Pat Riley on Saturday, just as he hoped.It just wasn't to Toronto or Milwaukee for Game 1 of a playoff series. That's the problem.Riley's second home in Malibu, California, is one of his happy places — though with the NBA playoffs starting this weekend, Malibu is about the last place he wants be right now. The playoffs aren't on Riley's calendar this season, so he's taking 10 blue notebooks to Malibu and plans to fill them with ideas on how to make sure that's not the case in 2020."I'm going to write and write and write and write," Riley said. "That's where we are for the next couple of weeks. Once the hangover subsides, then we'll have more coherent thought."A challenging offseason awaits the Heat, who went 39-43 this season and will return for training camp in about five months without Dwyane Wade — probably their best player this season, and at times certainly their most important player. Wade is retiring, and if the Heat have plans to remake their roster before next season they'll likely need some willing trade partners to make things happen.Miami already has players signed to about $140 million worth of deals for next season. Flexibility is not something Riley figures to have much of when its time to wheel and deal on the trade and free-agent markets."Very, very disappointed. I'm disappointed in myself. Obviously," Riley said Saturday, as he sat alone on a stage set up on the Heat practice court — one that figures to not be in much use for the next couple weeks while players rest and recover. "This has not come together the way that I thought it would. I thought this year that we would be in the top half of the Eastern Conference."The Heat finished 10th in the East. They beat 13 of the 16 playoff-bound teams — the only ones who swept Miami were Denver (2-0), Indiana (3-0) and Toronto (4-0). But the Heat also lost at least once to nine of the 13 other teams that didn't make the playoffs — going 1-3 against Atlanta, plus 0-2 against the Los Angeles Lakers, Sacramento Kings and Minnesota Timberwolves."There's going to be changes next year," Riley said. "Not a new culture, but tightening the screws on a culture that sometimes erodes just a little bit."Riley said the team is a long way from personnel decisions and draft strategy. The Heat want Dion Waiters slimmer and believe his game would explode if he got into world-class condition. They're still — in what seems like an annual occurrence now — figuring out how best to use Hassan Whiteside, who has a $27.1 million player option for next season. They believe James Johnson will be better. They hope Udonis Haslem returns for a 17th season.But one thing that Riley knows must change is the home record. Miami was awful at home this year, going 19-22. Only five teams were worse, and Riley was bothered by the Heat penchant for getting big leads and then letting them slip away."The last thing I want to do is send our fans into the beautiful night of Miami, cheering like crazy in the first half with a 20-point lead and leaving with a one-point loss," Riley said.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byOn College BasketballBy Harvey AratonWASHINGTON — Trey Mourning had one foot out the door at Georgetown when Uncle Patrick became Coach Ewing. He turned around and went to a team meeting.Ewing-Mourning roots run deep at Georgetown. But they also intersect at a crucial moment in the N.B.A.’s evolution on the court and are thicker, even, than the figurative blood that was spilled in one of the most ferocious rivalries in league history.That warfare involved the Knicks and the Miami Heat. Every N.B.A. playoffs from 1997 to 2000 featured — among other ultimate fighting showdowns occasionally resembling basketball — a main event involving two throwback centers: Patrick Ewing and Trey’s father, Alonzo, both of Georgetown pedigree.A decade and a half later, after a dominant career at Ransom Everglades, a prep school in Miami’s Coconut Grove neighborhood, Trey Mourning enrolled at Georgetown in 2014, months before his father was inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame. He did so essentially for three reasons: the university’s academic reputation, his family legacy and extended family relationships.John Thompson III was the head coach at Georgetown, but more of an enticement, Trey Mourning said, was the presence on the staff of Ewing’s son, Patrick Jr.“The Ewings are like family to me,” he said. “The Thompsons are family, but I use air quotes. That’s kind of how I look at it.”Over the next three seasons, he proceeded to mostly ride Thompson’s bench, registering no more than the 5.9 minutes he logged per game as a sophomore. With his senior year approaching, he was loath to conclude his college career without much time on the court, without opportunity.It is, however, a complex web that Georgetown weaves. Thompson was relieved after the 2016-17 season and replaced by Patrick Ewing, a hire inspired by Thompson’s father, known around campus as Big John, who coached Patrick Ewing and Alonzo Mourning at Georgetown and remains a mentor to both.Suddenly, Trey Mourning, a 6-foot-9 forward, had a more difficult decision to make regarding a potential transfer. Though Patrick Jr.’s assistant coaching position would be eliminated because of an anti-nepotism policy, the young Mourning could not dismiss the chance to play under the senior Ewing, who is actually listed in Trey’s smartphone as Uncle Patrick.They had a private sit-down, during which Ewing told him, “Put in the work, you’ll play.”No problem, Trey thought. If there was one thing ingrained in him by his father, it was an ethic that across 15 N.B.A. seasons of low-post warfare was best exemplified by Alonzo Mourning’s refusal to pack it in after a kidney transplant in 2003.Trey wound up sitting out his senior year at Georgetown with a hip injury, but he had been starting as a graduate student this season. He averaged 23.5 minutes, 7.7 points and 5.4 rebounds a game in the team’s first 11 games, but was idled recently by a concussion — his status is “day-to-day.” (Georgetown is 11-3 over all as it enters an early but important Big East matchup with St. John’s, which is 13-1 over all, on Saturday afternoon in Washington.) In a game against Campbell on Nov. 24, Mourning had career highs of 27 points and 12 rebounds.Watching was his father, who works in Miami for the Heat and sat in the stands at Washington’s Capital One Arena for the only time this season, along with Trey’s brother, Alijah.“Sweetest night so far,” Trey said.Trey Mourning’s game is less bullish than his father’s, reflecting the sport’s dramatic shift since those Heat-Knicks conflagrations, which often ended with neither team within squinting view of 90 points, much less 100. Compelling as the games were, unequaled at the time in raw intensity, they contributed mightily to N.B.A. rule changes in 2004 and the contemporary mix of unimpeded driving and long-distance shooting.“The N.B.A. did what they did because they wanted to make sure fans would come,” Ewing said. “It worked — look how popular it is. But I still get people coming up to me, saying they miss those days.”He and his buddy Alonzo can reminisce all they want about the punishment Michael Jordan absorbed against the Knicks’ and the Heat’s brutish defenses. It would be different now. “Imagine what Michael would do in today’s N.B.A.,’’ Mourning said in a telephone interview. ”He’d probably average 50.”And what can Ewing — 56 and hoping for head-coaching longevity — do but go with the flow?Trey Mourning, in fact, recalled working on low-post defense in high school with his father while a visiting Ewing watched from the sideline.“Patrick would be sitting there and, knowing the rule book, being a coach in the N.B.A., he’d say, ‘Oh, no, we can’t teach him that way, that’s illegal,’” Trey said.But in the 1990s, little seemed out of line, or beyond the realm of anarchic possibility, when Pat Riley’s Heat and Jeff Van Gundy’s Knicks staged an N.B.A. production of the Hatfields and McCoys — although the rivalry was also a knockoff of “All in the Family.”Besides the Ewing-Mourning connection, Riley coached the Knicks from 1991 to 1995 before moving to Miami, and Van Gundy, his assistant in New York, held the job until 2001. In Miami, Riley hired another Van Gundy — Jeff’s brother, Stan.There was a night in May 1999 when the Heat pulled away in the fourth quarter to force a decisive fifth game of a first-round playoff series, and the Knicks’ Latrell Sprewell, out of frustration and just for the fun of it, slammed the Heat’s Terry Porter to the floor on a fast break.A furious Stan Van Gundy bolted upright from his seat next to Riley and stormed down the Heat’s inflamed bench, yelling: “Remember all that. Remember what they do.”“They,” of course, being the team coached by his kid brother.“What Riley taught his players was to compete with an intent to dominate and annihilate your competition, mentally and physically,” Alonzo Mourning said. “When he coached the Knicks, he planted that seed. Then he coached the Heat and he planted that same seed. He literally built two monsters.”“Mirror images,” Ewing said.Yet somehow, against all odds of tribal conflict, the Ewing-Mourning friendship was never shaken, much less severed. Not even when Ewing was suspended for a crucial playoff game between the two teams in 1997 after wandering harmlessly off the bench during a brawl under the basket, costing the Knicks a chance to play in the Eastern Conference finals.And not after a slugfest broke out between Mourning and Larry Johnson, a former teammate in Charlotte, in the waning seconds of Game 4 of a first-round series between the Knicks and the Heat in 1998. That resulted in a Mourning suspension, his absence from a Knicks’ Game 5 rout in Miami and a hilarious photo of Jeff Van Gundy almost levitating while clasping Mourning’s leg.Count Van Gundy among those who miss such pugnacity. “It’s not an us-versus-them mentality as much,” he told ESPN’s Adrian Wojnarowski recently. “You’re hard-pressed to find a true rivalry anymore where there’s a little bit of edginess or bad blood.”Paradoxically, Ewing and Mourning, following the lead of Magic Johnson and Larry Bird, set a precedent for contemporary stars with their repudiation of Riley’s no-frenemies policy.“Pat used to get mad when he was the Knicks’ coach and I’d go out with Alonzo and Dikembe,” Ewing said, tossing in Mutombo, another Georgetown veteran. “He’d tell me, ‘You got to stay away from those guys.’ But whenever we played, starting with the summer workouts at Georgetown, we’d try to kill each other.”Alonzo Mourning said, “And at the end of the day, it was family,”Trey Mourning, a toddler back then, has one notable memory of the Heat-Knicks rivalry, the aftermath of the Porter-Sprewell episode in 1999, otherwise known as the Allan Houston game.Houston’s climactic runner in the lane bounced on the rim before going through the net, breaking Miami’s heart and propelling the Knicks from the threshold of first-round defeat all the way to the N.B.A. finals.“We had a TV in the kitchen — my Nana was there, my two cousins,” Trey said. “I couldn’t comprehend what it all meant yet, but I do remember they showed my dad walking off the court like this.”He put both hands on his head and feigned a look of disbelief.“That game hurt him,” he said. “He still talks about it sometimes.”As Georgetown does not retire jersey numbers, Trey wears his father’s and Ewing’s No. 33. He sat down for a recent interview in a National Kidney Foundation T-shirt, reflecting his father’s work to combat the rare disease — focal glomerulosclerosis — that threatened his life and required the transplant at age 32.As a young teenager, Trey developed a passion for international soccer and asked his father if he could go to the 2014 World Cup in Brazil as a high school graduation present.“I told him I would try to make it happen, and then he went out and learned to speak Portuguese,” Alonzo said. “What 15-year-old does that?”They never made it to Brazil, summer enrollment at Georgetown intervening, but that was the beginning of Trey Mourning’s love affair with language. He has since learned Italian, Spanish, some Greek and French, and hopes to make use of his lingual skills while playing professionally in Europe.“Trey’s been a vocal leader for us,” said Ewing, whose Hoyas start two freshman guards. “He didn’t play much before this season, so he doesn’t have a lot of experience. But he’s grown up with the game; he always wants to learn.”When he finished answering questions in the interview, Trey had a few of his own for a reporter he knew had covered the careers of his father, his coach and that Jordan fellow who always got the better of the Georgetown alumni.“What made Michael so good, in your opinion?” he said, turning on his smartphone recorder.The answer was simple. In addition to his otherworldly skills, Jordan had the same will and work ethic that defined Riley’s teams in Miami and New York.Effort, Trey Mourning was told, can never be legislated out of the game.He nodded. It was nothing he hadn’t heard from his father and his “uncle”-turned-coach, the root of everything they embrace, including each other.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc SteinThe Philadelphia 76ers made a bold move in the early hours of Wednesday morning to try to seize control of the post-LeBron James Eastern Conference by trading for Tobias Harris, the Los Angeles Clippers’ dynamic forward.In his second trade this season for a player who can become a free agent in July, Philadelphia General Manager Elton Brand surrendered two future first-round picks and two second-round picks in a six-player deal. The clear headliner, though, is Harris, who will join Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, J.J. Redick and Jimmy Butler, November’s acquisition, in what threatens to be the league’s most potent starting lineup outside of Golden State.The cost for Philadelphia was significant. The Sixers gave up their first-round pick in 2020 and an unprotected first-round pick in 2021, which they have from the Miami Heat, along with Wilson Chandler, Mike Muscala and Landry Shamet, a rookie guard. In return, Philadelphia will receive Harris, Boban Marjanovic and Mike Scott.“We are in a unique position to contend now, and we think this trade positions us well for the postseason,” Brand said in a statement.Philadelphia entered Wednesday’s play as the East’s No. 5 seed at 34-20, six games behind Milwaukee (39-13). The Sixers’ twofold challenge now will be establishing a chemistry among its new five-man core in the 28 games left before the playoffs and then re-signing Harris and Butler this summer after making two of this season’s biggest trades to get them.Harris emerged as an All-Star contender for the Clippers this season by averaging 20.9 points and 7.9 rebounds per game. His move to Philadelphia gives the Sixers another much-needed shooter (.496 from the field and .434 from 3-point range) alongside Redick.In making this trade, the Clippers ultimately decided that the draft picks Philadelphia offered were too valuable to pass up as they prepare for a big summer in which they are widely considered to be the league’s strongest threat to lure Kawhi Leonard away from the Toronto Raptors in free agency.The Clippers, at 30-25, have been one of this season’s surprise teams and sit at No. 8 in the Western Conference. But earlier this week, they also were named as one of four teams that Anthony Davis of the New Orleans Pelicans is willing to sign with long-term. This deal adds two more potentially enticing trade chips for the Clippers to offer the Pelicans for Davis — who has requested a trade — or to use in pursuit of other elite players.With Thursday’s 3 p.m. trade deadline approaching, teams across the league, especially Philadelphia’s top rivals in the East, are running out of time to make their own moves to try to keep pace.The Boston Celtics, according to numerous reports, have been urging the Pelicans not to trade Davis until after the season, since league rules prevent Boston from trading for Davis while both he and Celtics guard Kyrie Irving are playing under maximum rookie scale contract extensions. The Toronto Raptors, meanwhile, have reportedly expressed trade interest in the very available Memphis Grizzlies duo of Marc Gasol and Mike Conley.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCount Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James among those who were stunned by team president Magic Johnson's resignation on Tuesday night. But according to ESPN's Ramona Shelburne on Wednesday, James still stands behind the organization and Lakers owner Jeanie Buss.ESPN also reported that head coach Luke Walton participated in exit meetings with the players on Wednesday. Walton's job security is in jeopardy after the Lakers (37-45) missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season despite the offseason signing of James to a four-year, $154 million deal.James, 34, battled injuries and appeared in a career-low 55 games and averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists per game in 2018-19.--Following his meeting with Walton, James headed to New York, where he, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony watched Dwyane Wade play his final NBA game. The Miami Heat closed out the season against the Brooklyn Nets.After a pregame video tribute to Wade, the retiring superstar went over and hugged each of his three friends. The four have been friends for years, their bond immortalized by a photo of James, Wade and Paul riding a banana boat together while on vacation in 2015. Anthony was not in the picture but was also on vacation with the group.--Boston Celtics guard Marcus Smart has a torn left oblique and could miss the first two rounds of the Eastern Conference playoffs, according to a report from ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski.Smart averaged 8.9 points, 4.0 assists and 2.9 rebounds this season for the Celtics, who will be the fourth seed in the East after posting a 49-33 regular-season record. Boston will open at home this weekend against the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers. The physical guard is noted as one of the NBA's top defenders.Smart sustained the injury in a game against the Orlando Magic on Sunday, and he did not play in Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.--Anthony Davis acknowledged that despite his desire to leave New Orleans, he could begin the 2019-20 season with the Pelicans."I'm under contract still," Davis said during an informal season-ending news conference. "I have a year left. Obviously it's a possibility it could happen. I don't have ill will toward anybody. I know that it's a possibility that next year I could be here as well. So I can't be mad if I'm here next year."Davis said his next step will be to see who emerges as the general manager for the Pelicans. Dell Demps was fired in February after his handling of the Davis situation, and Danny Ferry is the interim general manager.--The Phoenix Suns have hired longtime NBA general manager Jeff Bower as their vice president of operations, Wojnarowski reported.Bower, 57, was general manager of the then-New Orleans Hornets from October 2005 to July 2010, and he also served as the team's head coach for most of the 2009-10 season after the firing of Byron Scott.The Suns have been without a general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.--The Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.Saunders, 32, is the youngest head coach in the league. He took over when Tom Thibodeau was fired in early January and has earned the endorsement of his players, most notably from All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.The Timberwolves were 36-45 entering Wednesday night's season finale at Denver, including a 17-24 mark under Saunders' leadership. Saunders reportedly will receive a three-year deal with a team option on the final season.--The Timberwolves also announced that guard Jeff Teague underwent successful debridement surgery Tuesday to clean out his left ankle. The team had no additional updates as to any recovery timetable.Teague played in 42 games for the Minnesota this season, averaging 12.1 points and a career-best 8.2 assists in 30.1 minutes. The team shut him down for the season in mid-March.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherWhen Derick Brassard was traded from the Florida Panthers to the Colorado Avalanche on Monday, his transportation logistics were not too tricky. He just headed over to the other team’s locker room. The Panthers and the Avalanche faced off Monday night, and Brassard duly scored a goal for his new team.In other offbeat N.H.L. trade-deadline news, Mikael Granlund was sent from the Minnesota Wild to the Nashville Predators on Monday while his partner was in labor.When you think about it, a trade is a strange thing. Imagine showing up to work tomorrow and finding yourself sent to Albuquerque along with Bob from Accounting for some young coding prospects.Given all the trades in all the sports over the years, it is not surprising that there have been some unusual ones.Guys have been traded for one, two, three, four or even five other players. Players have been traded for just about anything but a bucket of balls. Oh, wait. Scratch that. Tim Fortugno, a minor league pitcher, was sent from the Reno Silver Sox to the Stockton Brewers in 1989 for $2,500 and some baseballs. “I told them to throw in 12 dozen balls and we had a deal,” Jack Patton, the Silver Sox general manager, told The Los Angeles Times.Other legendary baseball swaps: Cy Young in 1890 for a new suit, and Ken Krahenbuhl in 1998 for catfish. Not Catfish Hunter, but 10 pounds of actual catfish.Teams have traded for coaches, including Jon Gruden, Lou Piniella, Doc Rivers and Bill Belichick. They have even traded for announcers: Ernie Harwell cost the Brooklyn Dodgers a player, Cliff Dapper, in 1948.Sometimes a player is traded for a player to be named later. In the case of Harry Chiti of the Indians in 1962, the player to be named later turned out to be Harry Chiti.In international soccer, trades are more unusual, but it’s not uncommon for smaller teams to ask bigger teams to agree to a lucrative friendly game as a part of a transfer deal.Forget three-team trades. There have been four-team trades, including the one in the N.B.A. that sent Dwight Howard to the Los Angeles Lakers in 2012. There has even been a five-team trade, a 13-player blockbuster in 2005 that sent Antoine Walker to the Miami Heat.One of the more memorable trades of recent years never actually happened. During a Mets home game in 2015, word reached the dugout and the many fans with smartphones that Wilmer Flores was being traded. Flores continued to play in the game, and the clued-in fans cheered the player in his “final” game as a Met. Flores was seen with tears in his eyes.Only the deal fell through. Flores remained a Met, and he quickly went from fan favorite to beloved Met hero for the next three years. (He was released in November.)Perhaps the strangest trade of all took place in 1979. The Philadelphia 76ers sent Harvey Catchings and Ralph Simpson to the Nets for Eric Money and Al Skinner.So what’s unusual? No, it’s not that Simpson’s daughter is the singer India Arie.The two teams had played each other in November, with the 76ers winning in double overtime. But the Nets protested the game, arguing that a number of technical fouls had been called improperly. The commissioner agreed and ordered the last part of the game to be replayed. The replay was scheduled for March.But by then the trade had taken place. Now four players were on different teams than when the game began.Sure enough, the final box score credits Money with 23 points for the Nets and 4 for the Sixers. Catchings and Simpson also played for both teams in the game.That’s a story that’s going to be hard to beat. Remember those four players who were traded in the middle of the third quarter?Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Howard MegdalAaron Gordon sat slouched in front of his locker, immobile as ice packs worked on his body following yet another loss earlier this season. His Orlando Magic teammates showered and dressed, and left.Gordon’s back had been bothering him, and no wonder: He’s in his fifth year of carrying the Magic franchise. And he is in for the long haul, too. After doing what he described as “due diligence” this past summer, Gordon signed a four-year, $80 million contract, handing over most of his mid-20s to a team that, so far, has failed to put a winning combination around him.But if the 6-foot-9 multidimensional star is still waiting for a winning supporting cast, his 2018-19 season is the latest, best evidence yet that he is approaching a specific kind of broad-based play that is fast becoming a requirement for surviving in the N.B.A.Gordon showed it off days ago in a 103-96 win over the Golden State Warriors.He did it all, scoring 22 points, pulling down 15 rebounds and using his defensive athleticism to help limit the Warriors to 9-for-40 shooting from 3-point range. By the end of last week, the surging Magic had found themselves in eighth place in the Eastern Conference and in new territory for Gordon: the playoff race.It has taken every skill Gordon has, but for his part, the 23-year-old has embraced the way the competition in the N.B.A. has demanded that he do virtually everything on any given night.“Versatility is going to be a huge part. The league is going in that direction,” Gordon said. “So it’s going to be 6-9, 6-10, 6-11, 7-foot guys able to do everything — handle the ball, pass, shoot, rebound. That’s the way the game is going to be.”And that’s the way the game is for Gordon, and how it has been dating back to his high school days at Archbishop Mitty in San Jose, Calif., where he played point guard before a late growth spurt turned him into a 6-foot-9 forward at Arizona, and then the fourth overall pick in the 2014 N.B.A. draft.The Magic can use Gordon anywhere.For three consecutive possessions in a game against the Houston Rockets in January, Gordon found himself bringing the ball up the floor and feeding center Nikola Vucevic in the post, settling out on the wing for a 3-pointer on a catch-and-shoot, and then posting up himself.“Offensively, his efficiency is up, and his assists are way up,” Magic Coach Steve Clifford said of Gordon. “I think one of our issues has been drawing fouls and getting the ball going into the paint. And that’s something he’s done a good job with.”Gordon was back in San Jose this past summer, getting up 300 shots every day, and the result has been a 53.3 true shooting percentage, his most efficient showing in three years, even as he’s taken more shots from everywhere on the court and opposing defenses have constructed game plans around stopping him.But he also put in extra time on work like slide steps, all with the long-range goal of becoming an elite two-way player. Clifford said Gordon laid out his plans for himself when the two first spoke after Clifford was hired over the summer.The results have been extraordinary. Per Synergy, Gordon ranks second (of 140 qualified players) in the N.B.A. in points per possession on isolation plays, minimum 40 possessions, with 0.545 points per possession.And he isn’t doing this against just bigs, either: The Magic routinely play him against the opposing team’s biggest offensive threat.When the Magic played the Nets in January, Orlando had Gordon take on Joe Harris, a shooting guard, the league leader in three-point percentage and winner of the three-point contest during All-Star weekend.“That speaks to, first of all, what they think of Joe, and also what they think of Gordon’s defensive game,” Nets Coach Kenny Atkinson said. “And defensively, when he wants to stop a guy, he can stop him — he has phenomenal athleticism.”The extent of Gordon’s abilities on that end were revealed further against the Nets that night, when a switch landed Gordon on the Nets’ D’Angelo Russell, an uber-quick point guard in the midst of the finest scoring barrage of his career. Russell feinted left, right, trying to find a pathway with his dribble from the top of the key. Gordon did not let him pass, and Russell, clearly frustrated, finally shunted the ball off to a teammate.The indications that Gordon has become a star are there. What is far less clear is how Orlando puts a championship team around him, though Clifford effusively endorsed him as the model player of that future roster.“He fits with what wins in the N.B.A. right now,” Clifford said. “He’s 23, and he’s made terrific gains, already, this year.”Clifford is a capable coach, in his first season with Orlando. But the roster looks less like a plan and more like a series of one-off moves. Vucevic is an excellent, traditional center, but his presence has kept Gordon, along with young bigs Mo Bamba and Jonathan Isaac, from getting significant time developing as the kind of stretch 5s most teams around the league deploy.Gordon is picked to run the offense, and does so effectively — his assist percentage of 16.4 is a career high — but that is in part because Orlando lacks a true starting point guard. Markelle Fultz may be the answer long-term, but whether the embattled former Philadelphia 76ers guard even plays this season remains a mystery.Gordon’s next step, per Clifford, needs to be the role of go-to scorer down the stretch of games, which Gordon agrees with. Will it happen?“Well, we’ll see,” Clifford said. “I mean, that’s what it’s all about. We’ll see.”But he needs help getting to those late-game situations with a chance to win it. Still, as Gordon eases into superstardom in the relative obscurity of Orlando’s slow rise in the East, he often uses visualization to help motivate himself, closing his eyes and picturing what a championship for the only franchise he’s ever known would look like.He said it gets hard to see it sometimes, pointing out that “a lot of things have to go right” even as he said he was sure it will.“Of course,” Gordon said, pulling on his pants gingerly, navigating his sore back.Toppling the Warriors last week showed Gordon just may be right. Losing to the lowly Cleveland Cavaliers on Sunday night, though, showed how far the Magic have to go.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMINNEAPOLIS — Kawhi Leonard scored 20 points and the Toronto Raptors closed their regular season with a 120-100 victory over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Tuesday night.Fred VanVleet scored 16 points, and Chris Boucher had a career-high 15 points and 13 rebounds off the bench for the Raptors, who finished the regular season at 58-24.Andrew Wiggins and Gorgui Dieng each scored 16 points for the Timberwolves, who played without All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.Toronto went on a 20-5 run over the final 5:16 of the second quarter and led 69-47 at halftime.Boucher scored 11 points in 10 minutes in the second quarter. Boucher's previous career best was the nine points he scored Dec. 28 against the Orlando Magic.The Timberwolves never got closer than 15 points in the second half, and the Raptors led by as many as 32 points in the final two periods.Towns did not play because of knee soreness. Timberwolves coach Ryan Saunders said Towns would travel with the team for Wednesday's season finale in Denver and be a game-time decision.The Raptors set a franchise record with their 26th road victory of the season.GOOD TIMINGThe Raptors were in Minneapolis on Monday night, allowing coach Nick Nurse and his staff to attend Monday night's NCAA title game. Nurse played against Virginia coach Tony Bennett when Nurse was at Northern Iowa and Bennett was at Wisconsin-Green Bay. "I think I held him to 29 points one time," Nurse joked.TIP-INSRaptors: G Kyle Lowry (rest), F/C Serge Ibaka (rest) and G Patrick McCaw (sprained right thumb) did not play. VanVleet started in place of Lowry. . Toronto reached 1,000 made 3-pointers in a season for the first time.Timberwolves: G Jerryd Bayless (right ankle contusion) and F Taj Gibson (strained left calf) did not play. They joined Towns and long-term absentees F Robert Covington (bone bruise on right knee), F Luol Deng (left Achilles soreness), G Derrick Rose (right elbow surgery) and G Jeff Teague (left foot inflammation) in missing the game. . Dieng made his first start since April 12, 2017. . Tyus Jones had his stretch of 129:18 without a turnover snapped.UP NEXTRaptors: Host either Brooklyn Nets or Orlando Magic in Eastern Conference playoffs.Timberwolves: At Denver Nuggets on Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Detroit Pistons wrapped up the NBA's final playoff berth Wednesday night as the regular season concluded.The reward for the Pistons (41-41)? A first-round Eastern Conference playoff date with the league's best team, the Milwaukee Bucks.Detroit qualified for the playoffs thanks to a 115-89 road win over the New York Knicks. The Pistons held off a challenge from the Charlotte Hornets, who finished 39-43 after losing 122-114 to the visiting Orlando Magic on Wednesday.The Magic (42-40) wound up in seventh place in the East, and they will oppose the Toronto Raptors (58-24) in the first round of the playoffs. Orlando has the best current form of any team in the East, winning eight of its last 10 regular-season games.The other Eastern Conference playoff matchups will see the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers (51-31) oppose the sixth-seeded Brooklyn Nets (42-40), and the fourth-seeded Boston Celtics (49-33) meet the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers (48-34).The two-time defending NBA champion Golden State Warriors (57-25) hold the top seed for the Western Conference playoffs, where their first-round foe will be the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Clippers (47-34).The other playoff matchups in the West were due to be determined by the results of the Wednesday late games.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byStars being added to Eastern Conference powerhouses drew most of the headlines, but there were other moves that could prove significant.By Benjamin HoffmanN.B.A. fans can be forgiven for being distracted by shiny objects. And there are few objects shinier than a star who is being added to a playoff contender.But even though the powerhouses of the Eastern Conference went to war over which team could add the biggest piece, it is worth taking a look at some under-the-radar moves that could prove significant this season or in the near future. Amid the flurry of moves this week, these three deals stood out as opportunities for players to thrive in situations far more advantageous to their careers than where they had been, which could end up paying significant dividends to the teams that acquired them.The Magic are trading Jonathon Simmons, a first-round pick and a second-round pick to the Philadelphia 76ers for Fultz, according to The Athletic.Why it matters: The very public breakdown of Fultz’s career has made any move involving him relevant. A consensus No. 1 pick in the 2017 draft after a terrific freshman season at Washington, Fultz was viewed by Philadelphia as the endgame of the team’s long-running Process. The Sixers traded the No. 3 pick in that draft (which ended up being Jayson Tatum) and a future first-round pick (likely to be Sacramento’s pick in this year’s draft) to Boston so they could move up two spots to get him.Things fell apart almost immediately. Fultz’s shooting form went from quirky to horrendous, debates emerged as to whether he had been injured or had simply lost his confidence, and he played just 14 games last season and 19 this season before shutting down with a diagnosis of thoracic outlet syndrome.No one knows what Fultz is capable of, but it had become painfully obvious that he was not going to have the opportunity to play his way through his problems with the Sixers, a team that believes it has a legitimate chance of winning the East this year.In Orlando, the pressure should be turned down considerably. The team values length, and while Fultz is a modest 6-foot-4, he has a seven-foot wingspan and has at times shown flashes of brilliance, including during a game last April in which he became the first teenager to officially record a triple-double in the N.B.A.In this week’s trade, Philadelphia managed to land a few picks to replace what it gave up to be able to draft Fultz. But Simmons is primarily filler to make the trade work, and the move is mostly about clearing an unproductive player off the Sixers’ roster and letting him try to find a better situation elsewhere. As Fultz looks to avoid joining Anthony Bennett and LaRue Martin as the biggest busts to be taken with the No. 1 overall pick, Orlando seems as good of a place as any to get started.The Kings traded Justin Jackson and Zach Randolph to the Dallas Mavericks for Barnes.Why it matters: The Kings entered Thursday night’s games as the No. 9 seed in the West, one and a half games behind the Los Angeles Clippers and one game ahead of the Los Angeles Lakers. With the Clippers having just traded Tobias Harris, the door is open for Sacramento to secure its first playoff spot since 2006.Sacramento plays extraordinarily fast, partly as a result of repeatedly using lineups with three guards, but they play at a significant size disadvantage.Enter Barnes, a 6-8 small forward who gives the team a bigger body without requiring the offense to slow down all that much.It’s hard to remember after three productive-if-uninspiring seasons in Dallas, but Barnes was once a member of Golden State’s ultrafluid Death Lineup, and if he can get back to a 3-and-D style of play, he could be a perfect addition to the Kings’ starting five, though that does not mean the deal is without drawbacks.First and foremost, Barnes has been used to a high-usage role in Dallas, and that will not be available to him in Sacramento, a team with an offensive pecking order that will make him a third option at best. He also has let his defense slide to the point where he was a net negative on the court for Dallas. The Kings will probably be on the hook for his $25.1 million player option next year, and if he isn’t on board to shift his style of play, he could make the team worse.All of that said, Barnes is still just 26, and after winning a championship in his third season, and 73 regular-season games in his fourth year, he has not sniffed the playoffs since. A return to a relevant team could unlock the complementary player who helped Golden State soar, and for a franchise that has often been accused of sabotaging itself, this is a real attempt to make the team better.The Bulls traded Jabari Parker and Bobby Portis to the Washington Wizards for Porter. Why it matters: Neither team is going anywhere this season, but Chicago is trying to set up the team’s future by acquiring Porter, a player with loads of potential — and an enormous contract — who has sometimes failed to click in Washington.Porter, a 25-year-old forward who has plenty of size at 6-8, has seen his statistics decline this season, at least in part because of the overall decline of the Wizards. But at his best, he is capable of shooting better than 40 percent from 3-point range while also contributing rebounding and passing. For an example of why Chicago would take a flier on a frustrating player owed a great deal of money, look no further than one of the players he was traded for: Parker. Last off-season, the Bulls had money to spend and wanted to make a free-agent splash. Parker, a player known as much for being injury prone as for being defense-averse, was the best they could do. In Porter they pick up a young player with plenty of potential who is owed a little more than $27 million next season and has a player option of a bit less than $28.5 million in 2020-21. That is probably better than what Chicago could get on the open market, which makes it worth saying goodbye to Portis, a decent rotation player who was mostly wasted on a team that is several big pieces away from contention.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBOSTON — Terrence Ross had 26 points, Nikola Vucevic added 25 points and 12 rebounds and the Orlando Magic rallied past the Boston Celtics 116-108 on Sunday night to clinch their first playoff berth in seven years.Evan Fournier added 24 points for Orlando (41-40), which last made the postseason during the 2011-12 season. Sunday's victory also gave the Magic their first regular-season sweep over Boston since 1996-97.Even with the loss, the Celtics (48-33) clinched at least the fourth seed and home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs just before tip-off. That came courtesy of Brooklyn's win over Indiana.Kyrie Irving had 23 points for Boston. Al Horford finished with 18 points and Gordon Hayward added 16 off the bench.The Magic erased a 13-point first-half deficit and took an 83-78 lead into the fourth quarter. They kept it going, starting the final period on an 11-2 run, which included nine points by Ross.Boston responded with run of its own and tied the game at 106 on a 3-pointer by Irving with 2:50 remaining.The Magic kept attacking.Fournier got free in the lane and dunked over Terry Rozier to put the Magic back in front. The Celtics turned it over on their next possession. That was followed by an Aaron Gordon layup on the other end that made it 110-106.Celtics coach Brad Stevens said before the game that the Indiana outcomes wouldn't affect how much he played his starters against Orlando.But there clearly was interest in Boston's locker room beforehand, as evidenced in the television tuned to the Pacers-Nets matchup.As for his rotations, Stevens was true to his word and played his starters their normal minutes.It proved costly.Jayson Tatum limped off the court at the six-minute mark of the first quarter with a left shin contusion and did not return.Marcus Smart left with 6:15 remaining in the third, helped off by trainers and holding his left side after banging hips with Vucevic. He was diagnosed with a left hip contusion.Stevens will almost certainly rest both during Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.TIP-INSMagic: Vucevic had his 60th double-double of the season.Celtics: Hayward has now scored in double-figures in eight consecutive games.UP NEXTMagic: Regular-season finale at Charlotte Tuesday.Celtics: Regular-season finale at Washington Wednesday.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCount Los Angeles Lakers star LeBron James among those who were stunned by team president Magic Johnson's resignation on Tuesday night. But according to ESPN's Ramona Shelburne on Wednesday, James still stands behind the organization and Lakers owner Jeanie Buss.ESPN also reported that head coach Luke Walton participated in exit meetings with the players on Wednesday. Walton's job security is in jeopardy after the Lakers (37-45) missed the playoffs for the sixth consecutive season despite the offseason signing of James to a four-year, $154 million deal.James, 34, battled injuries and appeared in a career-low 55 games and averaged 27.4 points, 8.5 rebounds and 8.3 assists per game in 2018-19.--Following his meeting with Walton, James headed to New York, where he, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony watched Dwyane Wade play his final NBA game. The Miami Heat closed out the season against the Brooklyn Nets.After a pregame video tribute to Wade, the retiring superstar went over and hugged each of his three friends. The four have been friends for years, their bond immortalized by a photo of James, Wade and Paul riding a banana boat together while on vacation in 2015. Anthony was not in the picture but was also on vacation with the group.--Boston Celtics guard Marcus Smart has a torn left oblique and could miss the first two rounds of the Eastern Conference playoffs, according to a report from ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski.Smart averaged 8.9 points, 4.0 assists and 2.9 rebounds this season for the Celtics, who will be the fourth seed in the East after posting a 49-33 regular-season record. Boston will open at home this weekend against the fifth-seeded Indiana Pacers. The physical guard is noted as one of the NBA's top defenders.Smart sustained the injury in a game against the Orlando Magic on Sunday, and he did not play in Tuesday's regular-season finale at Washington.--Anthony Davis acknowledged that despite his desire to leave New Orleans, he could begin the 2019-20 season with the Pelicans."I'm under contract still," Davis said during an informal season-ending news conference. "I have a year left. Obviously it's a possibility it could happen. I don't have ill will toward anybody. I know that it's a possibility that next year I could be here as well. So I can't be mad if I'm here next year."Davis said his next step will be to see who emerges as the general manager for the Pelicans. Dell Demps was fired in February after his handling of the Davis situation, and Danny Ferry is the interim general manager.--The Phoenix Suns have hired longtime NBA general manager Jeff Bower as their vice president of operations, Wojnarowski reported.Bower, 57, was general manager of the then-New Orleans Hornets from October 2005 to July 2010, and he also served as the team's head coach for most of the 2009-10 season after the firing of Byron Scott.The Suns have been without a general manager since Ryan McDonough was fired a week before the start of the 2018-19 season.--The Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.Saunders, 32, is the youngest head coach in the league. He took over when Tom Thibodeau was fired in early January and has earned the endorsement of his players, most notably from All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.The Timberwolves were 36-45 entering Wednesday night's season finale at Denver, including a 17-24 mark under Saunders' leadership. Saunders reportedly will receive a three-year deal with a team option on the final season.--The Timberwolves also announced that guard Jeff Teague underwent successful debridement surgery Tuesday to clean out his left ankle. The team had no additional updates as to any recovery timetable.Teague played in 42 games for the Minnesota this season, averaging 12.1 points and a career-best 8.2 assists in 30.1 minutes. The team shut him down for the season in mid-March.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTORONTO — Kept off the scoreboard in a Game 1 defeat, Toronto Raptors guard Kyle Lowry was "at his finest" in Game 2, at least in the eyes of coach Nick Nurse.Fellow All-Star Kawhi Leonard wasn't too bad, either.Leonard scored 37 points, Lowry bounced back with 22 and the Raptors routed the Orlando Magic 111-82 on Tuesday night, evening their Eastern Conference first-round series at one win apiece.Pascal Siakam had 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who never trailed and led by as many as 34.Game 3 is Friday night in Orlando.Leonard said Lowry "led us in intensity," helping the East's No. 2 seed avoid a 2-0 hole."He did a great job of bouncing back," Leonard said. "He's a pro. That's what pros do, they know it's just one game and they come in the next game ready to play."Lowry, who missed all seven attempts in Game 1, shot 8 for 13 and led his team with seven assists."He was big time tonight," Nurse said. "That's him at his finest."Siakam said Lowry was visibly more tuned in Tuesday than he was Saturday."From the jump he had that fire in his eyes," Siakam said. "That's the Kyle we know."Despite playing in foul trouble for much of the night, Leonard finished with a career playoff-high 15 field goals. He made his first nine attempts from inside the arc before missing a layup.Leonard shot 15 for 22 before leaving to a standing ovation with 4:46 remaining and Toronto ahead 104-73."Leonard was great," Magic coach Steve Clifford said. "What are you going to do? He was great."Leonard's career playoff high is 43, set with San Antonio against Memphis on April 22, 2017. He made 14 baskets in that game."Tonight he was just in a groove, getting downhill, getting to his spots," Lowry said. "He's a player who knows where he wants to be on the floor and when he gets to those spots, he's pretty tough to guard."Aaron Gordon scored 20 points, Terrence Ross had 15 and Evan Fournier 10 for the Magic, who won the opener 104-101 on a tiebreaking 3 by D.J. Augustin with 4.2 seconds to go.Nikola Vucevic, who shot 3 for 14 in Game 1, struggled again in Game 2, going 3 of 7 and scoring six points."They did a good job taking away a lot of my strengths," Vucevic said. "I've just got to figure out a way to be more aggressive, be more efficient offensively."Augustin, who had 25 points Saturday, shot 1 for 6. Seven of his nine points came at the free throw line.Orlando didn't score for almost five minutes to start the game, missing its first six shots and four straight free throws. The drought ended when Gordon rebounded and scored on Vucevic's miss from the line at 7:14 of the first, answering an 11-0 Toronto run.Leonard scored 12 points in the opening quarter as the Raptors led 26-18 after one."Their defense set the tone for the game in the first quarter," Clifford said.Lowry scored 11 points in the second and Siakam added six, putting Toronto up 51-39 at halftime. Orlando shot 13 for 40 in the opening two quarters.Leonard connected of seven of nine attempts in the third, scoring 17 points. The Raptors outscored the Magic 39-27 to take a 90-66 lead into the fourth."At halftime, I thought we had settled down," Clifford said. "Then, at the beginning of the third quarter, they were good and, frankly, we were awful."TIP-INSMagic: Orlando missed its first five free throw attempts before Ross made two of three at 2:11 of the first. The Magic shot 8 for 16 at the line in the first half and finished 13 for 24. ... Ross had 15 of Orlando's 17 bench points in the first half. ... The Magic were outscored 52-36 in the paint. ... Orlando has outrebounded Toronto in all six meetings this season.Raptors: Lowry snapped his scoring slump by splitting a pair of free throws at 10:48 of the first, leading to thunderous applause. He was cheered again after hitting a 3 at 6:52. ... Only four players scored in the first half. Leonard had 17, Lowry 15, Siakam 12 and Serge Ibaka 7. ... Toronto has won nine straight playoff games in which it makes more 3-pointers than its opponent. Toronto shot 11 for 35 Tuesday, while Orlando was 9 for 34. ... G Patrick McCaw (sprained right thumb) was not available despite practicing the previous two days. ... Toronto is 8-8 all time in Game 2s.TURNED OVEROrlando had just 11 turnovers in Game 1 but gave the ball away 17 times in Game 2, including on both of its opening two possessions."If we're going to make this a long series, and hopefully we will, we're going to need to be stronger with the ball," Gordon said. "Simple as that."HOME SWEET HOMEOrlando has won nine straight at home and is unbeaten on its own court since a Feb. 22 loss to Chicago."We feed off the crowd, we like their energy," Gordon said.UP NEXTGame 3 is Friday night in Orlando.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTORONTO — For the Orlando Magic, the first game of the playoffs felt a lot like the final few weeks of the regular season: high stakes, small margins, and a big win at the end of the day.D.J. Augustin scored 25 points, including the tiebreaking 3-pointer with 3.5 seconds left, and the Magic beat the Toronto Raptors 104-101 in Game 1 of their Eastern Conference first-round series on Saturday.Kawhi Leonard got a final shot for Toronto, but missed the rim with his 3-pointer from the top.Orlando went 22-9 over the final 31 games of the season to clinch its first playoff berth since 2012."I think it helps," Magic coach Steve Clifford said of his team's tough regular-season finish. "We've been playing games that we had to win and were meaningful games for a while."Nikola Vucevic, who scored 11 points, said Orlando's stretch drive help the team's mental preparation for the grind of the postseason."Throughout this last month, we were able to fight through a lot of different adversity and it has kind of prepared us for the playoffs," Vucevic said.And, when crunch time arrived in Game 1, Orlando was entirely unfazed."We made a bunch of big plays in the last three or four minutes," Clifford said.Aaron Gordon had 10 points and 10 rebounds, Evan Fournier scored 16 points and Jonathan Isaac had 11 as the No. 7-seeded Magic became the latest team to beat Toronto in the opening game of a playoff series. The Raptors are 2-14 in playoff openers."We know who we are and this is one game," Toronto's Kyle Lowry said. "We've got to make sure we know who we are and execute what we can do. When we do what we are supposed to do, we are really, really good."Leonard scored 25 points, Pascal Siakam had 24 and Fred VanVleet had 14 for the second-seeded Raptors, who reclaimed the lead after trailing by 16 points in the second quarter, but couldn't hold on down the stretch.Toronto got 13 points apiece from Danny Green and Marc Gasol, but Lowry finished scoreless, missing all seven of his attempts. Lowry did have eight assists and seven rebounds."He had some really good looks that he's normally going to knock down," coach Nick Nurse said. "I'm sure he'll bounce back and play a little better in the next game."Leonard hit a tying 3 with 1:35 left, then put Toronto up 101-99 with a jumper at 1:02. Augustin made a layup to tie it again with 44 seconds left, then connected from long range for the fourth time to win the game.Gasol said he and Leonard got their defensive assignments mixed up on Augustin's decisive shot, leaving the guard wide open."It was a mistake made on that play," Gasol said. "We miscommunicated and he made a good shot."Augustin's 3 was the seventh lead change of the final quarter and the 13th of the game."When I saw the opening, I shot the ball with confidence and it went in," he said.Augustin made 9 of 13 attempts, going 4 of 5 from beyond the arc.Leonard made all four of his attempts in the first and added a pair of free throws. He scored 11 points in the opening quarter as Toronto led 30-25.Leading 42-41 with 3:46 remaining in the second, Orlando got 10 points from Augustin in a 15-0 run that put the Magic up 57-41 with 55 seconds left. Siakam stopped Toronto's drought with a jump shot, and Gasol and Green added 3-pointers but the Raptors trailed 57-49 at halftime.Leonard scored five points as Toronto used a 12-2 spurt at the start of the third, reclaiming the lead on Gasol's 3 at 8:19. Siakam scored eight points in the third, while Leonard and Green each had seven, as the Raptors took a narrow 76-75 lead to the fourth.TIP-INSMagic: F Jonathan Isaac (concussion) and Nikola Vucevic (illness) both started after missing Orlando's regular-season finale Wednesday. ...Vucevic didn't score in the first quarter, missing all three of his attempts.Raptors: Toronto shot 3 for 10 from 3-point range in the first quarter, and 3 for 11 in the second. The Raptors finished 12 for 36 from outside. ... Siakam had nine rebounds.HERO'S WELCOMEFormer Raptors C Jonas Valanciunas got a huge ovation when he walked to his baseline seat near the Toronto bench a few minutes before the tipoff. Valanciunas, C.J. Miles and Delon Wright were traded to Memphis in February for Gasol.END OF THE LINEToronto failed to score at least 110 points for the first time in 10 games. The Raptors sett a franchise record by scoring 110 or more in nine straight games to finish the regular season.UP NEXTGame 2 is Tuesday night in Toronto___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Dwyane Wade was hurting, sitting on the training table trying to get enough treatment to get him on the floor one last time.A couple of hours later, he looked like a guy capable of playing well beyond the final night of his career.Wade had 25 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists in his last NBA game, which the Brooklyn Nets won by beating the Miami Heat 113-94 on Wednesday night to finish 42-40 and clinch the No. 6 seed in the Eastern Conference.With close friends LeBron James, Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony leading the cheers from their courtside seats, Wade had his fifth career triple-double in three quarters. He fittingly secured it with a pass to Udonis Haslem, his teammate of 15 years who plays sparingly now and made his only start of the season."I was like, I don't know why, but everybody feels like now you've got to go out and score 60 in your last game because Kobe did it," said Wade, wearing a sparkling gold jacket and gold sneakers. "So hopefully I took the bar all the way back down and say let's go get a triple-double, that's easier."A night after scoring 30 points in his final game in Miami, Wade showed one more time that he's walking away with his skills intact.He played 36 minutes, dribbling out the shot clock the final time he had the ball before checking out with 10 seconds remaining. Then it was time for a lengthy postgame celebration on the court with teammates and friends."The man went out with a triple-double. Don't let that go unnoticed. He had a triple-double," All-Star D'Angelo Russell said. "He is a guy that paved the way for a lot of us. He's been with that franchise for that long period of time. He's Mr. Miami."Russell had 21 points on seven 3-pointers for the Nets, who will face the third-seeded Philadelphia 76ers beginning this weekend in their first postseason appearance since 2015, one that seemed unlikely when they were 8-18 in December. But they went 34-22 from there for their first winning record since going 44-38 in 2013-14 — when they were knocked out by Wade's Heat in the second round."Special night," Nets coach Kenny Atkinson said. "Pretty amazing season so far."The game mattered only to the Nets, who quickly ended any fears of finishing seventh and having to face the Toronto Raptors in the first round.But that was secondary to a last chance to celebrate Wade, the three-time NBA champion who was ending his 16th and final NBA season.He was loudly cheered from the moment he emerged alone from the tunnel for pregame layups. Fans — egged on at one point by Paul and Anthony — chanted "We want Wade! We want Wade!" when he was on the bench, even though the 37-year-old guard had played a season-high 35 minutes Tuesday and coach Erik Spoelstra warned before the game that it probably wouldn't be that way again.But there was no keeping Wade down for long. It took him a little bit to get going, as Jarrett Allen added Wade to the list of stars whose shots he's blocked this season — a list that included James."I loved seeing CP and Melo over there getting the crowd going to get Dwyane back in there and Dwyane comes from the old-school NBA," Spoelstra said. "That was pre-load management, so we were not load managing him tonight and I was not talking to my sports scientist whether he could go, even though I walked in and saw him on that training table an hour before the game and he did not look fit to go, at all. But he's cut from a different cloth."The Heat hoped the final game would matter, but the Nets and Orlando Magic had clinched spots over the weekend to leave only one spot left coming into the last week. Miami was eliminated from contention for it despite its victory Tuesday."For me, I'm happy with this season," Wade said. "Unfortunately for our organization and our team, we weren't able to put ourselves in a position to win enough games to be in the playoffs, but for what I wanted for this season, I'm happy to say that I completed that."TIP-INSHeat: Haslem finished with 12 points and 11 rebounds. ... Wade passed Elgin Baylor (23,149 points) to move into 29th place on the NBA's career list. He finished with 23,165.Nets: Starters Joe Harris (toe) and DeMarre Carroll (right wrist) sat out, though Atkinson said they would be ready for the playoff opener. ... Shabazz Napier scored 20 points off the bench.THE LAST JERSEYWade has been exchanging jerseys with players after games this season, but there was one missing. Anthony, who helped persuade Wade to return this season, didn't play long this season before parting ways with Houston. So Wade gave his final one to him."I didn't get an opportunity to play against Melo this year and exchange jerseys with him," Wade said. "That was a missing piece out of this whole season, so everything worked out great for him being here, for me having an opportunity to give him my jersey."___UP NEXTHeat: The offseason.Nets: A first-round playoff matchup against the Philadelphia 76ers.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressORLANDO, Fla. — The stars have been stars in these playoffs.Kyrie Irving has Boston on the cusp of sweeping away Indiana Pacers. Kevin Durant, Stephen Curry and Golden State are coming off a game against the Los Angeles Clippers where the Warriors looked very much like the NBA champions again. Damian Lillard and Russell Westbrook are going at each other big-time in the Portland-Oklahoma City series.And then there's Pascal Siakam.Toronto's surprise story is no surprise anymore.Siakam has been perhaps the biggest breakout player in these playoffs, adding to his breakout season for the Raptors — who lead the Orlando Magic 2-1 in their first-round matchup thanks largely to the 25-year-old from Cameroon and his 24.3 points and 10 rebounds per game in the series.It's easy to forget that Siakam only started playing organized basketball seven years ago."Seriously?" Raptors guard Danny Green asked, unaware of his teammate's unique background.Seriously.Raptors coach Nick Nurse was amused by a recent question suggesting the Siakam was the team's third option offensively behind Kawhi Leonard and Kyle Lowry. Nurse said the way Toronto sees it, Siakam — "Spicy P" is what they call him in Toronto, and the team sent out bottles of hot sauce with his face on the box to NBA awards voters as part of his Most Improved Player campaign — has really been the second option all season.At times in these playoffs, he's been the first option. In other words, a star is being born."Hey, look, he was terrific," Magic coach Steve Clifford said after Siakam's 30-point, 11-rebound effort in Game 3.There's four games on tap Sunday: Boston has a 3-0 lead and can become the first team to advance to the second round if it wins at Indiana. All three other series on the schedule — Golden State at the Los Angeles Clippers, Toronto at Orlando and Portland at Oklahoma City — have the road teams leading 2-1 and in position to all go home for potential closeout wins if they get victories on Sunday.Here's a look at Sunday's games:CELTICS AT PACERSCeltics lead 3-0. Game 4, 1 p.m. EDT, ABCNEED TO KNOW: Boston is seeking its first series sweep since 2011, when it rolled past the Knicks. The Celtics' other 4-0 sweeps came in 1959, 1980, 1981 and 1986. The Pacers are trying to avoid a fourth straight first-round exit and their second 4-0 loss in three years.KEEP AN EYE ON: Pacers starting forwards Bojan Bogdanovic and Thaddeus Young will be free agents this summer. Might this be their finales in Indiana?INJURY WATCH: Pacers star Victor Oladipo, out since January with a right knee injury, is expected to be at Game 4. He was going to fly in for Game 3, but was delayed by weather.PRESSURE IS ON: Boston. There's no pressure on Indiana; no one has come from 3-0 down to win a series, so the Pacers won't be expected to change that. Boston is playing for more rest before facing the Milwaukee-Detroit winner.WARRIORS AT CLIPPERSWarriors lead 2-1. Game 4, 3:30 p.m. EDT, ABCNEED TO KNOW: Golden State sent a very clear message in Game 3, blowing out Los Angeles by 27 with only one starter logging more than 30 minutes. And the Clippers have allowed a staggering 129.7 points in their last six games (going 2-4).KEEP AN EYE ON: The Clippers' first unit. Lou Williams and Montrezl Harrell are great off the bench and play starters' minutes, so this is somewhat misleading, but Doc Rivers can't have just one starter in double figures — as was the case in Game 2.INJURY WATCH: Andrew Bogut had eight points, 14 rebounds and five assists in his first game as DeMarcus Cousins' replacement for the Warriors.PRESSURE IS ON: Patrick Beverley. The Clippers' point guard is unquestionably tough, but four fouls and five shots in 18 minutes — like he had in Game 3 on Thursday — won't cut it again.RAPTORS AT MAGICRaptors lead 2-1. Game 4, 7 p.m. EDT, TNTNEED TO KNOW: Entering Saturday, three players in these playoffs — Stephen Curry, James Harden and Pascal Siakam — had a 30-point double-double. Curry and Harden made a combined $68 million this season. Siakam made about $1.5 million.KEEP AN EYE ON: Orlando guard Evan Fournier is 12 for 42 in this series and was 1 for 12 in Game 3. Among players with at least 10 shot attempts, there's been only five instances in Magic history where someone shot worse in a home game.INJURY WATCH: Bad news for Orlando: Toronto's Kawhi Leonard was ailing for Game 3 with an illness, which may explain some of his 6-for-19 shooting effort. He's expected to feel better Sunday.PRESSURE IS ON: Orlando's starters. Toronto opened on an 11-0 run (and 16-2) in Game 2 and a 10-0 run in Game 3. Another occurrence of that in Game 4 would be trouble.TRAIL BLAZERS AT THUNDERTrail Blazers lead 2-1. Game 4, 9:30 p.m. EDT, TNTNEED TO KNOW: Oklahoma City clearly got its swagger back in Game 3. And Portland needs to buck this history: The Trail Blazers are 0-7 in their last seven playoff games immediately following a loss.KEEP AN EYE ON: The Damian Lillard-Russell Westbrook matchup is the premier head-to-head tussle so far in these playoffs. Lillard's 25-point third quarter in Game 3 was phenomenal, but the Thunder held him to seven points in the other three quarters.INJURY WATCH: Thunder forward Paul George struggled with his shot again in Game 3 — a season-worst 3 for 16, raising questions about his troublesome right shoulder. But he got to the line 17 times, making 14, so he's clearly not shying from contact.PRESSURE IS ON: Portland's defense. Trail Blazer fouls sent the Thunder on the foul line 39 times in Game 3.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills and Washington Wizards forward Devin Robinson were arrested after a fight outside a nightclub, Washington police said Saturday.Karimah Bilal, program manager for the Metropolitan Police Department's office of communications, confirmed in an email to The Associated Press that the Mills named in the police report is the Eagles player.Both the 6-foot, 191-pound Mills and the 6-foot-8, 200-pound Robinson were charged with disorderly affray, which generally refers to fighting in a public place.The two men were "involved in a verbal altercation which escalated into a physical altercation on the sidewalk adjacent to the Opera Night Club" in the early hours of Saturday morning, according to the police report.Robinson was taken to a hospital for treatment, the report said.He also lost his job with the Wizards."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend him a qualifying offer for the 2019-20 season," the NBA team said in a statement.The Eagles said in their statement they are "aware of the situation" and "continuing to gather more information." They said they will not comment further now.Mills started eight games for the Eagles last season before going on injured reserve in December after hurting a foot.Philadelphia drafted him out of LSU in the seventh round in 2016. He was a member of the Eagles' Super Bowl championship team after the 2017 season, when he started 15 of 16 regular-season games.Robinson appeared in seven of the Wizards' 82 games last season and also played for their NBA G League affiliate, the Capital City Go-Go.______Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Howard MegdalThe hiring of the W.N.B.A. point guard Kristi Toliver as a full-time assistant coach with the N.B.A.’s Washington Wizards while she is still an active player was widely applauded as a notable new achievement for women in coaching.It followed the San Antonio Spurs’ hiring of Becky Hammon, and other women like Nancy Lieberman and Jenny Boucek also joining N.B.A. coaching staffs.“With anything, you need to see it to be it,” said Briann January, a guard for the Phoenix Mercury and, in her off-season, an assistant women’s basketball coach at Arizona State. “I see it now because of Becky. Because of Kristi. I see the opportunity that is out there to take that next step in this professional area.”For many players, the moves showed N.B.A. teams tapping into a longstanding, significant pipeline of female talent.“I think a lot of women in general are missing out on a lot of good opportunities in which we can be extremely beneficial to any team, to any organization, no matter our gender,” said Alana Beard, a veteran Los Angeles Sparks guard often mentioned as a coaching candidate by her peers.Beard cited the meager pay Toliver is to receive this season — just $10,000 because of limits in the W.N.B.A.’s collective bargaining agreement — as an “extremely important” issue for the league to address in negotiations for a new agreement. The goal would be making a barrier that has long been permeable on one side — men into women’s basketball on the coaching side — into a free exchange of talent, regardless of gender, based on opportunity.Many, if not most, W.N.B.A. players, who are paid significantly less than their male counterparts, cannot afford to spend their off-season working for so little pay. Their basketball skills are worth much more — into the millions of dollars — in service of women’s leagues overseas.“All of those things on a coach’s plate to take care of, to do that for $10,000 for an entire N.B.A. season is crazy,” January said. “I’d like to break that down and do the math, like how much that is a game or how much that is a day. That would just be insult to injury.”Yet some people, including commentators on internet sites and men’s basketball fans in real life, contend these women should be happy to have opportunities at all.This attitude rankles many W.N.B.A. players — that even Toliver’s shot, let alone chances for other women with considerable experience playing and in many cases coaching, is often thought of as a one-sided benefit for those who are hired.But in many cases, the N.B.A. came calling after seeing the women excelling on their own. Toliver’s work with the Mystics helped bring her to the attention of Wizards Coach Scott Brooks, just as Hammon got her opportunity in San Antonio because she was employed by the Silver Stars, then owned by the same group as the Spurs, and her W.N.B.A. coach, Dan Hughes, talked her up to Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich.“I had a chance to put two parties together that I knew would work,” Hughes, now the head coach of the Seattle Storm, said. “I knew Becky, and I also knew Pop, and I knew that Pop, we had a lot of years of conversation about Becky. He had seen her play when I first brought her to San Antonio. So to me it was an opportunity to merge two people that would benefit from each other.”Toliver has opened up that discussion in significant ways, which she said was a large part of her reasoning for taking the job in the first place. In Hughes’s eyes, it is nothing less than the overdue elimination of whatever combination of sexism and inertia has prevented the men’s basketball world from taking advantage of all the talent amassed on the women’s side of the sport, the next step toward N.B.A. teams and W.N.B.A. teams and men’s and women’s college basketball programs all hiring from the same pool of candidates.As Hughes sees it, it’s time, not because these women deserve a chance, but because every basketball team needs more coaches like Hammon, Toliver and those who will follow.“I want a world someday where people judge coaches on how good a coach they truly are,” Hughes said. “Doesn’t matter if they’re male or female, doesn’t matter their background. They can say he’s a coach or she’s a coach, and we can use them.”Every W.N.B.A. player who stays home instead of playing overseas in her off-season, the athletes said, is potentially one more person around which to promote the league year-round, and that player gets to rest, too. The grind of playing 12 months a year has led to W.N.B.A. players like Diana Taurasi and Angel McCoughtry taking seasons off.“You always want to protect your product,” January said. “And the majority of our product is being run down and beaten up year-round playing this game. So when they come back around to play in the W.N.B.A., you have half of your players injured, playing through nagging things. We still find a way to have a high talent and high level of basketball, which is crazy to me.“We just have some really strong women, but that needs to be a discussion. What can we do to provide other opportunities for women to make income and prepare for the future on a real-life scale? Something they can live on. Something that makes sense.”Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe Minnesota Timberwolves plan to offer interim coach Ryan Saunders a multiyear deal as early as this week, league sources told ESPN.Saunders, 32, is the youngest head coach in the league. He took over when Tom Thibodeau was fired in early January and he has earned the endorsement of his players, most notably from All-Star center Karl-Anthony Towns.The Timberwolves are 36-45 entering Wednesday night's season finale at Denver, including a 17-24 mark under Saunders' leadership.Saunders will reportedly receive a three-year deal with a team option on the final season.Saunders had been an assistant coach with Minnesota since 2014, after serving as an assistant with the Washington Wizards from 2009-14.Saunders' father, Flip, was the head coach of the Timberwolves from 1995-2005 and again in 2014-15. Flip Saunders guided the team to eight straight playoff appearances.ESPN also reported that Timberwolves owner Glen Taylor plans to retain general manager Scott Layden, who has been with the team since 2016.On Wednesday, the team announced it was starting its search for a president of basketball operations, a position that has been vacant since Thibodeau's dismissal."In the absence of Tom, I want to thank all who picked up his responsibilities this past year. This includes Interim Head Coach Ryan Saunders, General Manager Scott Layden and our entire basketball staff for their efforts leading our team through the 2018-19 season," Taylor said in a statement. "They worked through a season with many injuries requiring many challenges in our player lineup. We are incredibly grateful to them for all of their hard work and commitment to the franchise."--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersThe foot injury that cost John Wall half of this season might sideline the Washington Wizards point guard for all of next season, too.The five-time All-Star, speaking to reporters Tuesday during the Wizards' season finale, expressed uncertainty regarding the timetable for his recovery. Wall hasn't played since Dec. 26, and he underwent surgery in February to repair his left Achilles tendon."Whenever my body feels like it's back to where I feel ready to play, that's when I'll come back," Wall said, according to the Washington Post. "I think I've been through the process of plenty of injuries and just coming back before I was supposed to and injuring myself and making it a lot worse. So, this is one, just take my time and let my whole body heal and get back to being 100 percent."Wall, 28, appeared in 32 games this season, and he averaged 20.7 points (the second-highest mark of his career), 8.7 assists and 3.6 rebounds.Asked his thoughts on the possibility the Wizards could select a point guard in this year's draft, Wall said, according to the Post, "I'd be fine. I don't have no problem with that because it is what it is. You have to do what's best for the team and make sure that we have pieces. And when I come back, he can be a great backup to me."He said of his aim for the offseason: "Just getting the motion back in my foot, just being able to walk on two shoes. That's what I'm really waiting to get to. Then after that, it's just everything is taking my time and going with the process. That's how long it takes."Wall still has four years and $170 million left on his contract.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy Scott Cacciola and Eric SchmittLOS ANGELES — Knicks center Enes Kanter said on Friday that he would not travel with the team to play the Washington Wizards in London on Jan. 17 because he feared retaliation for his public opposition to President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey.Kanter, who is Turkish, has been an outspoken critic of the president for years.“Sadly, I’m not going because of that freaking lunatic, the Turkish president,” Kanter said after the Knicks’ 119-112 victory over the Lakers. “It’s pretty sad that all the stuff affects my career and basketball because I want to be out there and help my team win. But just because of the one lunatic guy, one maniac, one dictator, I can’t even go out there and do my job. It’s pretty sad.”Kanter said Turkish operatives could present a danger to him in London.“They have a lot of spies there,” he said. “I could get killed there easy.”An official at the Turkish Embassy in Washington, speaking Saturday on the condition of anonymity to abide by diplomatic protocol, dismissed Kanter’s comments as baseless.A Knicks official later said that Kanter would not be traveling to London because of a visa issue.In May 2017, Kanter was detained for several hours at an airport in Romania after the Turkish government canceled his travel documents. Later that year, Turkey’s state-run news agency reported that prosecutors were seeking more than four years in jail for Kanter on charges that he had insulted Erdogan on social media.Scott Cacciola reported from Los Angeles, and Eric Schmitt from Washington.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersIn the final home game of a legendary career, Dirk Nowitzki gave an exuberant sellout crowd one final show with a season-high 30 points in the Dallas Mavericks' 120-109 win against the visiting Phoenix Suns on Tuesday.Nowitzki, 40, announced after the game that he would retire following the Mavericks' season finale Wednesday at San Antonio.The 7-footer, who entered the league in the lockout-shortened 1999 season and revolutionized the power forward position, scored 10 points in the opening seven minutes and had 19 points on a season-high 18 shot attempts in the first half to power Dallas to a 68-38 halftime lead.He secured his season high in points with a straightaway 3-pointer, his fifth of the game, early in the third quarter for 22 points. That was followed by a rare slam dunk that elicited howls from the crowd and a big smile across Nowitzki's face.The 14-time All-Star and sixth-leading scorer in NBA history then drained another jumper for 26 points and an 80-49 Dallas lead. He re-entered the game with three minutes left and hit two more buckets to go 11 of 31 from the floor. He finished with eight rebounds, three assists and a block in a season-high 32 minutes.Suns veteran Jamal Crawford wasn't going to let Nowitzki totally steal the stage. He put in seven 3-pointers in posting a season-high 51 points -- one off his career best -- with 26 coming in the fourth quarter, to get the Suns as close as 105-100 with 4:20 to play.Crawford, 39, became the oldest player ever to score 50-plus points in an NBA game. The old mark was held by Michael Jordan, who was 38 when he scored 51 for the Washington Wizards on Dec. 29, 2001, against the Charlotte Hornets.According to ESPN, Crawford also became the first player to score 50 points for four different franchises (Chicago Bulls, New York Knicks, Golden State Warriors and now Phoenix).The Suns closed out a miserable season, finishing 19-63.A longer-than-expected recovery from ankle surgery kept Nowitzki out until mid-December. From there, he mostly came off the bench for the first time in his career, and averaged 6.6 points in less than 15 minutes a game before Tuesday.But on this special night, Nowitzki turned back the clock, and so did the crowd as it chanted "M-V-P! M-V-P!" Nowitzki won the league's regular-season MVP award in 2006-07 and earned NBA Finals MVP in 2011, when he delivered Dallas its lone championship.The future of the Mavs (33-48), rookie Luka Doncic, also didn't disappoint, notching his eighth triple-double with 21 points, 11 assists and 16 rebounds. He moved into sole possession of third place for most triple-doubles by a rookie.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLuke Walton and the Kings have agreed to a multi-year contract to make him Sacramento's next coach, The Athletic reported.Walton met with Kings general manager Vlade Divac on Saturday, and The Athletic's Sam Amick reported the two had reached agreement on a deal that is expected to run through the 2022-23 season.ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski said an official announcement could come this weekend.The Los Angeles Lakers and Walton, 39, parted ways on Friday. He compiled a 98-148 record in three seasons as the Lakers' head coach. Los Angeles missed the playoffs in all three campaigns.--The Lakers, meanwhile, received permission to discuss their opening for head coach with Philadelphia 76ers assistant Monty Williams, ESPN reported, citing league sources.The Lakers are focusing on Williams and former Cleveland Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue, and general manager Rob Pelinka plans to speak with each candidate in the near future, league sources told ESPN.After spending the previous two years in the San Antonio Spurs' front office following the death of his wife Ingrid in 2016, Williams got back into coaching as Brett Brown's top assistant with the 76ers.--The 76ers fined veteran center Amir Johnson an undisclosed amount for showing teammate Joel Embiid his cell phone on the bench late in a 111-102 loss to the Brooklyn Nets in Game 1 of their playoff series.TV cameras caught Johnson on the bench in the fourth quarter, when the 76ers were 16 points down and he was scrolling through his phone. After showing Embiid something on his phone, Johnson put it into the pocket of his warm-ups."I apologize for having my phone on the bench in today's game," Johnson said in a statement released hours after the game by the 76ers. "I take full responsibility and will accept the consequences of my actions. I also apologize to my teammates, the 76ers organization and the fans for the distraction this has caused."--Milwaukee Bucks forward Nikola Mirotic is expected to return from a thumb injury to play in Game 1 of the first-round series against the Detroit Pistons on Sunday.Mirotic missed the final 11 games of the regular season after fracturing his left thumb during a March 19 game against the Los Angeles Lakers.Mirotic fully participated in Friday's practice and took part in Saturday's non-contact practice. He had his thumb taped during both workouts.--The Washington Wizards announced they will not make a qualifying offer to free agent forward Devin Robinson after he was apparently arrested late Friday."We are aware of the incident this morning involving Devin and are disappointed in his actions. We will not extend a qualifying offer to him for the 2019-20 season," it read.According to Washington Post reporter Candace Buckner, who covers the Wizards, Robinson was involved in an altercation with Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Jalen Mills at a nightclub.--Toronto Raptors forward OG Anunoby could be sidelined until the Eastern Conference finals, should the team make it that far, ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski reported.Anunoby underwent an emergency appendectomy on Thursday.The second-year player, who is a key reserve for the Raptors, scored 7.0 points per game this season with an average of 2.9 rebounds. He played in 67 games this season, starting six of them, a year after he started 62 games as a rookie from Indiana.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Bradley Beal became the first player in Washington Wizards franchise history to average at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists for a season, reaching the numbers he needed in a 116-110 loss to the playoff-bound Boston Celtics in a finale Tuesday night that was meaningless to both clubs.Eliminated a while ago and bound for the draft lottery, the Wizards wound up 32-50, their most losses since going 29-53 in 2012-13. Team president Ernie Grunfeld was fired last week after 16 years in charge.John Wall and Dwight Howard both missed most of the season with injuries.Beal, a two-time All-Star, finished with 16 points, five rebounds and four assists — all before halftime — on Tuesday as he played in all 82 games for the second consecutive season.The Celtics already were assured of finishing as the No. 4 team in the Eastern Conference and facing the No. 5-seeded Indiana Pacers in the first round of the playoffs. They finished 49-33.So there was no reason for Boston to care about the outcome Tuesday — or, therefore, use any of its best players.Seven prominent members of the roster were ruled out: Kyrie Irving, Jayson Tatum, Gordon Hayward, Al Horford, Marcus Smart, Aron Baynes and Marcus Morris. That group includes six of the top seven Celtics in scoring and assists, the club's six leading rebounders.The starting lineup was Jaylen Brown, Terry Rozier, Semi Ojeleye, Guerschon Yabusele and Robert Williams. Ojele, Yabusele and Williams had a combined three starts this season before Tuesday.TIP-INSCeltics: Rozier scored 21 points. ... Signed G Jonathan Gibson. He played four games for Boston last season. "He gets buckets," coach Brad Stevens said.Wizards: Tomas Satoransky scored 19 points. ... Signed Gs Jordan McRae and Tarik Phillip. McRae was on a two-way contract this season, when he averaged 5.9 points, 1.5 rebounds and 1.1 assists in 27 games for the Wizards and led the NBA G League in scoring at 30.4 ppg for the Capital City Go-Go. Phillip played for the Memphis Hustle in the G League.WALL SPEAKSWizards PG Wall says he is not sure whether he will be able to play next season as he recovers from a torn Achilles tendon. "I have no idea just yet," Wall told reporters at halftime. "That's my goal."STEVENS ON VIRGINIA, BENNETTStevens, who led Butler to two runner-up finishes in the NCAA Tournament, was asked for his reaction to seeing coach Tony Bennett and Virginia go from last year's disaster — the first No. 1 seed to lose to a 16 — to this year's championship. "One of the coolest things I think I've seen in sports was Tony Bennett's reaction when they got beat last year and the way that he handled it," Stevens said. "And then to back that up with the year they had ... and for all those kids and for him and for everybody associated with the program to win all those games in the fashion that they did. ... Tony is a good friend and I am thrilled for him and for college basketball. I think he's about all the good stuff."UP NEXT:Celtics: Game 1 of their first-round series against the Pacers will be in Boston; day and time to be announced.Wizards: Season over. Time for a GM search and a rebuild.___Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDwyane Wade scored 30 points in a tribute-filled final home game on Tuesday, but despite a 122-99 victory over Philadelphia, the Miami Heat were eliminated from playoff contention.Wade’s career will end Wednesday in Brooklyn. He checked out with 1:02 left, embracing teammates and his son, Zaire.Wade scored the first basket of the game on a dunk, Philadelphia scored the next eight — and it was all Miami the rest of the way.In the final minutes, Wade swished a 3-pointer and banked in two more en route to 14 points in the final quarter.MAVERICKS 120, SUNS 109 Dirk Nowitzki scored a season-high 30 points in what was most likely the final home game of the 40-year-old’s 21st season.The 14-time All-Star scored the team’s first 10 points and passed his previous season high of 21 on a 3-pointer early in the third quarter. The Mavericks end their season Wednesday in San Antonio.Jamal Crawford scored 51 points for Phoenix (19-63), which had by far the worst record in the Western Conference.Fans stood during warm-ups, recording Nowitzki in the layup line on their phones. The 7-foot German obliged with a dunk. Then he had another dunk in the game — his second of the season — in the second half.Nowitzki fought back tears during a tribute video in between the first and second quarters.KNICKS 96, BULLS 86 Dennis Smith Jr. scored 25 points, Mitchell Robinson added eight points and 17 rebounds and the Knicks escaped the possibility of finishing with the worst record in franchise history.With one game remaining, against Detroit, the Knicks (17-64) can only tie the mark of the 2014-15 team. They already secured the N.B.A.’s worst record and a draft position no worse than fifth.The Bulls, meanwhile, lost for the 32nd time at United Center this season, a franchise record.PISTONS 100, GRIZZLIES 93 Andre Drummond had 20 points and 17 rebounds, as host Detroit came back from a 22-point deficit to cling to a playoff spot.Detroit can clinch a bid Wednesday night at New York.HORNETS 124, CAVALIERS 97 Kemba Walker scored 23 points and visiting Charlotte kept its playoff push alive. The Hornets (39-42) must now beat Orlando at home on Wednesday and hope the Pistons (39-42) lose in New York.WARRIORS 112, PELICANS 103 DeMarcus Cousins had 21 points and 12 rebounds for visiting Golden State, which took Stephen Curry out of the game after nine minutes with a mild foot sprain.The Warriors said Curry was held out as a precaution, having already had clinched the top playoff seed in the Western Conference. They also played without Kevin Durant and Klay Thompson.The game also likely marked the end of the Anthony Davis era in New Orleans. The disgruntled All-Star, who missed his seventh straight game with what the team has officially listed as back spasms, wore a T-shirt that said, “That’s All Folks.”CELTICS 116, WIZARDS 110 Bradley Beal 16 points, five rebounds and four assists — all before halftime — to become the first player in Washington Wizards franchise history to average at least 25 points, five rebounds and five assists for a season.Advertisement
AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Mario Hezonja scored a career-high 30 points and made the go-ahead 3-pointer with 44 seconds left, and the New York Knicks beat the Washington Wizards at home for the first time in six years with a 113-110 victory Sunday night.Luke Kornet added 17 points and Kevin Knox had 16 for the Knicks (16-64), who would have tied the franchise record with a 65th loss had they not rallied from a 10-point deficit after three quarters.They had lost nine straight at Madison Square Garden to the Wizards since their last victory on April 9, 2013, but Hezonja brought New York back with some big plays in the final period.Starting again at point guard, he added six rebounds and five assists.Jeff Green had 19 points and Thomas Bryant scored 17 for the Wizards (32-49), who need to beat Boston on Tuesday in their final game to avoid a 50-loss season.Hezonja's 3-pointer made it 111-110, and the Knicks got the ball back when Sam Dekker lost it out of bounds. Hezonja hit two free throws for the final margin.New York has to win its last two games to avoid at least matching its 17-65 mark under Derek Fisher in 2014-15.Washington led 56-52 at halftime but New York took a 68-67 lead on Hezonja's follow shot with 7:41 remaining in the third. The Wizards ran off the next 13 points to go ahead 80-68 on Bobby Portis' 3-pointer about three minutes later, and they took an 89-79 lead to the fourth.New York made its first five 3s in the final quarter and charged back to take a 106-103 lead on Mitchell Robinson's free throws with 2:20 to play.TIP-INSWizards: Bradley Beal scored 13 points, going 5 of 17 and landing hard after a dunk in the first half. ... Jordan McRae sat out with a sore left Achilles tendon.Knicks: Dennis Smith Jr. played despite back soreness, coming off the bench to score 15 points after missing the previous three games. ... Coach David Fizdale isn't sure if guards Allonzo Trier (left calf) and Kadeem Allen (concussion) will return this season.WHAT IF?Washington coach Scott Brooks said it's hard not to look at the Eastern Conference, where a winning record wasn't required to secure a playoff berth, and think the Wizards should've been there."Every year you go down, 'OK, we came up short on that game, we should've won that game.' You can list off a bunch of games. I've always done that. When we won 60 games in OKC we did the same thing," Brooks said."There's definitely opportunity the way the East is this year. There might be three teams right at .500 — 6, 7, 8. But can't worry about that now. We've got to move forward and during a tough season a lot of good things happened."NO PROBLEM, HOUSTONFizdale wasn't concerned with Rockets starters leaving the bench before the Knicks' loss in Houston had ended on Friday, saying he didn't know their reasons for doing so and didn't need them to explain it to him."I've got a game today," he said. "I've got the Wizards."UP NEXTWizards: Host Boston on Tuesday.Knicks: Visit Chicago on Tuesday.___Advertisement
